the television series, is also a good physical depiction of Archer, although he is very different from Newman.
EQMM: Will there be other Archer, or Harper, films?
MACDONALD: There will be further films, but I don't know under what name. Warner Brothers owns the name “Harper,” so no one else can use it. I’m working on the treatment now for the next film, which will be The Instant Enemy. My new novel, The Silent Hammer, has just gone into my publisher.
THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Whatever may be my complaints about items arriving for review, our new books seldom lack variety. In January, to celebrate the new year, I can offer you this choice mixed bag: each hardcover, each hypnotic, ranging from a three-volume single-author omnibus to a really memorable crime anthology, with stops between them for one novel of detection and one of espionage.
The Charlotte Armstrong Festival, by that late brilliant lady (Coward, McCann & Geoghegan, $8.95), comprises three romances in which Miss Armstrong has so well shown her dexterity at what might be called the emotional thriller.
Whether you begin with “The Gift Shop,” “Lemon in the Basket,” or “The Balloon Man,” you will find her sympathetic protagonist enmeshed in mystery or dilemma which grows ever more tense until our hostess restores clarity with some ingenious touch at the finale.
If feminine coyness sometimes under what name. Warner Brothers owns the name “Harper,” so no one else can use it. I’m working on the treatment now for the next film, which will be The Instant Enemy. My new novel, The Silent Hammer, has just gone into my publisher.

Intrudes, it never diminishes humor, perception, or impact. My own favorite would be “The Gift Shop,” wherein Harry Fairchild and his faithful Jean search abroad as well as at home for the secret of a toy pig at Los Angeles Airport. But I should not contest some other view. As connoisseurs, mes enfants, you will want to try them all.
With Jack Fenner, Boston private investigator of George Harmon Coxe’s No Place for Murder (Knopf, $6.95), we plunge at once into more fictional dirty work than that sedate town has known since Jacques Futrelle created the Thinking Machine.
First Fenner must prove he didn’t kill the unknown man found shot in his office. By tracking that victim, dubious both past and present, they uncover evidence of large-scale juggler stock certificates. This may or may not involve Bruce Townsend, Brahmin stockbroker, who has lost his head over a would-be actress.

138