THE JURY BOX
By JOHN DICKSON CARR

Detection-keyed with liveliness, I am happy to report, looms very large this month. Three of the four are fair-play mysteries, one featuring a tough Bow Street Runner in pre-Victorian Britain, while our fourth item provides superior cops-and-robbers from today. There’s something for everybody; your mentor has no gripe.

Beginning with a skyjacked plane whose bandit bails out with nearly half a million in ransom off the coast of the British Honduras, The Inside Man, by George Harmon Coxe (Knopf, $5.95), sweeps at a pace as unfaltering as its ingenuity and skill.

Private Investigator Jack Dunbar and Attorney Dave Barry, hired by East Coast Airlines to recover the ransom money, must fight foul tactics, from muggers to worse, as soon as they land at Belize, Honduras. A small plane, stolen locally by some unknown pilot to pick up the skyjacker at sea, is found wrecked and sunk, with the money missing but the skyjacker shot dead inside.

Assisted by Inspector McCain of the official police, our two investigators keep their balance amid picturesque characters from the sympathetic to the sinister, from attractive Mrs. Marion Morgan to enigmatic Pilot Delgado and his nightclub girl.

The principal clue, although fair and honorable, is so ingenious that you may miss it altogether. Of equal ingenuity is the hiding place for the missing money as in smooth, literate prose we race towards disclosure and finale. George Harmon Coxe, that reliable old master, has never written a better story.

It seems unfortunate that such first-class detection as Appleby’s Other Story, by Michael Innes (Dodd, Mead, $4.95), should be downgraded in its publisher’s subtitle as “a novel of suspense.” Mr. Innes, another old master, belongs on a higher plane.

At Elvedon Court, his stately country house from which certain paintings have already been stolen, Maurice Tytherton is murdered just before a courtesy call paid by Sir John Appleby, now retired Commissioner of Metropolitan Police.

© 1974 by John Dickson Carr.

93