the sport of kings. Dan Roke, in fine, proves so reliable an undercover agent that high authority finally invites him to join the British counter-espionage service; no doubt we shall hear from him in that capacity.

Espionage, espionage, espionage! Of the two preceding novels, it will be remarked, one begins and the other ends with it. A new kind of cataract has come down at Lodore, providing your correspondent with much of his reading headache. The good writers will be mentioned, but to a bemused mind it sometimes seems that half the bad writers in Christendom are off on what would nowadays be described as an espionage kick. Behold the bandwagon disappearing down the road, and the last poor devil (who is it?) taking a mighty pratfall as he tries to swing aboard.

In a spy story, of course, any mystery is usually of the most clumsy or primitive sort, with few if any clues; the plot is as naive and stereotyped as the plot of a western. But nothing clumsy or naive can be dealt with here. It is therefore a pleasure to report that **The Quiller Memorandum**, by Adam Hall (Simon and Schuster, $4.50), is one of the best spy novels I have ever read. Adam Hall, we are told, is a pseudonym; if he is in fact Elleston Trevor, as my own spies assure me, never before has he written so brilliant a book under his own name or anybody else's.

In turbulent present-day Berlin, Quiller, the British agent narrator, after being blackmailed by his own office into an assignment he has tried to dodge, finds himself on the trail both of a revived Nazi organization and of a vicious, still-at-liberty war criminal from the old Third Reich. Social mores in fiction, it is true, have changed over the years. In the days of John Buchan and E. Phillips Oppenheim we had some whisper of romantic love but seldom even a suggestion of sex, whereas at the mid-1960s no attractive woman, whether for our side or against it, can wait ten minutes before taking off her clothes. Inga Lindt, Quiller's own angry sex-bomb, is no exception to modern rules.

There is very much a mystery and a tricky one, with clues in plenty for those alert enough to see them.
