THE NEW BOOKS

the sport of kings. Dan Roke, in fine, proves so reliable an undercover agent that high authority finally invites him to join the British counter-espionage service; no doubt we shall hear from him in that capacity.

E spionage, espionage, espionage! Of the two preceding novels, it will be remarked, one begins and the other ends with it. A new kind of cataract has come down at Lodore, providing your correspondent with much of his reading headache. The good writers will be mentioned, but to a bemused mind it sometimes seems that half the bad writers in Christendom are off on what would nowadays be described as an espionage kick. Behold the bandwagon disappearing down the road, and the last poor devil (who is it?) taking a mighty pratfall as he tries to swing aboard.

In a spy story, of course, any mystery is usually of the most clumsy or primitive sort, with few if any clues; the plot is as naive and stereotyped as the plot of a western. But nothing clumsy or naive can be dealt with here. It is therefore a pleasure to report that The Quiller Memorandum, by Adam Hall (Simon and Schuster, $4.50), is one of the best spy novels I have ever read. Adam Hall, we are told, is a pseudonym; if he is in fact Elleston Trevor, as my own spies assure me, never before has he written so brilliant a book under his own name or anybody else's.

In turbulent present-day Berlin, Quiller, the British agent narrator, after being blackmailed by his own office into an assignment he has tried to dodge, finds himself on the trail both of a revived Nazi organization and of a vicious, still-at-liberty war criminal from the old Third Reich. Social mores in fiction, it is true, have changed over the years. In the days of John Buchan and E. Phillips Oppenheim we had some whisper of romantic love but seldom even a suggestion of sex, whereas at the mid-1960s no attractive woman, whether for our side or against it, can wait ten minutes before taking off her clothes. Inga Lindt, Quiller's own angry sex-bomb, is no exception to modern rules.

There is very much a mystery and a tricky one, with clues in plenty for those alert enough to see them.

107

Robert Penn Warren
records the heartbeat of a revolution

From hundreds of interviews with men like Martin Luther King James Farmer, and Roy Wilkins, as well as with the young, emerging Negro leaders of tomorrow — and from a search of his own conscience — Robert Penn Warren, a Pulitzer Prize novelist and a Saint-serner, makes this extraor dicary personal report on all the important Negro figures in today's evil rights struggles: what they want, what they stand for, what they are.

Who Speaks for the Negro?

By ROBERT PENN WARREN
$5.95, now at your bookstore

RANDOM HOUSE
1. Madison Avenue, New York 10082

FOR SAILING ENTHUSIASTS—“… the best book of its type ever to have been published.”—Library Journal

THE LURE OF SAILING

A Sailboat Owner’s Complete Handbook

By EVERETT A. PEARSON

Packed with more than 100 photographs and drawings

Whether you’re a novice or have been sailing for years, you’ll profit from this book. Covering sailboats both large and small, this profusely illustrated guide takes you from a review of the basics of sailing and seamanship to the practical aspects of running and maintaining a sailboat. Not only does Mr. Pearson explain in detail how to sail but he tells you why you do each step. Within its pages you and your family will discover how to enjoy the fun and rewards of sailing, whether it be cruising, racing, or just loafing around out on the water.

—Ten Days’ Free Examination

HARPER & ROW
51 E. 33rd St., N. Y. 10016

Please send me THE LURE OF SAILING. Within ten days, I will remit $5.95, plus postage and handling charges, or return the book without obligation.

Name
Address
City _____ State _____ Zip Code _____

Save! If you enclose payment, we will pay mailing charges. Same return privilege.
6514 B

Copyright (c) 2003 ProQuest Information and Learning Company
Copyright (c) Harper’s Magazine Foundation