106

From the outset of the adventure, when Lovell and the narrator discover a murdered man in their car, action never flags for an instant until it flares to a blazing holocaust inside some disused fortifications beyond the border. Nor are these the only problems. It becomes obvious that Lovell, that fugitive from AA, will fall off the wagon with a crash, and equally obvious that the poised Miss Jarman is falling for him. Most veteran readers will spot the identity of the sinister mastermind, but then the evidence is fairly presented as far as it goes. The characterization has more depth than is usual in such stories; emotional tangles are satisfactorily resolved. Don’t miss Midnight Plus One.

The terror which gathers like a cold fog through The Turret Room, by Charlotte Armstrong (Coward-McCann, $4.50), provides still another instance of Miss Armstrong’s skill at making us jump when she lowers her voice. A colleague has objected that the protagonist should not have been called Edith Thompson, that being the name of a famous (and alluring) English murderess—or innocent victim of the law, depending on your view of the case—in 1922. But, since the character in question is referred to throughout as Edie, there was one reader at least whom it failed to jar. Is young Harold Page a murderous psychopath, or only an innocent and well-meaning bumpkin? In the brooding California house of the Whitmans (a plague on Granny, anyhow!) doubt is piled on doubt, uncertainty on uncertainty, until we learn what really happened and who in actual fact was the prisoner in the tower. A story for sophisticates, strongly recommended.

Any reader who begins The Diamond Bubble, by Robert L. Fish (Simon and Schuster, $3.50), and who has already made the acquaintance of Captain José Da Silva, liaison officer between Interpol and the Brazilian police, will expect something choice in mystery-adventure. He will not be disappointed. Again the scene is Rio in a heat haze, with every atmospheric detail skillfully evoked. It seems clear that some racket is being worked, when diamonds allegedly worth $6,000 each are sold to American tourists at half that price.

THE NEW BOOKS

But what racket? The diamonds are not glass, nor is there any switch; they really are worth $6,000, and are triumphantly carried aboard ship by the departing tourist. If there’s a joker in the deck, where is it? Da Silva and his friend Wilson, whose first name we never learn but who carries more authority than his official position at the American Embassy would indicate, are drawn first into the murder of Da Silva’s disreputable cousin Nestor, shot down on the terrace of a café, after which they are led far afield to the hinterland, bumping in an ancient taxi until it is squashed as flat as an opera hat and a burst of gunplay sweeps events toward enlightenment. Though this may not be Mr. Fish’s best book, it is well up to the high standard he has already set.

Maurice Procter is a master of the police-procedure novel; he has done no better work than Homicide Blonde (Harper & Row, $3.95). Again the scene is Grantchester: not the village beside the Cam once celebrated by Rupert Brooke, but a sprawling provincial city which suggests Liverpool, as does the speech of its people. Realistically, without gloss or prettification, Mr. Procter depicts the day-to-day activity of the CID in a homicide detail under Detective Chief Inspector Martineau. Few writers could invest routine police work with such breathless and page-turning interest, but Martineau and his men have no ordinary case. One foggy night in November Lily Ellis, a chubby and nubile “working-class” girl of twelve, is caught in a dingy street and strangled behind the wall of the cricket ground. Though she has not been sexually molested, “child murder,” we are warned, “is habit-forming.”

Well, perhaps. Another such strangling follows within forty-eight hours, and then three more, the girls being progressively older until the fifth victim is a woman of thirty-five; if a common factor exists, it seems to be the circumstance that each victim has true golden hair of the sort Martineau comes to call homicide blonde. As the hunt roars through Grantchester from Toad Wood to Lea Park, Martineau thinks he has spotted the murderer and so will an unwary reader. Look out, though: there is still a trick up the auctorial sleeve.

If old hands may suspect the real killer, it is because Mr. Procter has used an unorthodox and daring fairness, several times probing the mind of the strangler without betraying the fact that it is the strangler’s. Full marks and high honors.

In Trusted Like the Fox, by Sara Woods (Harper & Row, $3.95), the mists roll back; we seem to see unveiled—through the medium of full-dress trial at the Old Bailey—a grisly and brutal picture of treason from twenty years gone by. In the dock stands Michael Godson, a Brightsea photographer. “Godson,” declares the prosecution, is in reality Guy Harland, who, according to the Crown’s evidence, in 1944 defected to the Nazis after bashing an eminent scientist nearly to death, stealing top-secret information, and knocking out the police officer who tried to detain him. Counsel for the defense, that temperamental but engaging barrier Antony Maitland, almost immediately has the props kicked from under the case when Godson privately confesses he is Harland, though still swearing he is guiltless of any crime. The barrister, despite everything, remains convinced of his client’s innocence and fights for it against formidable odds. So persuasively does Sara Woods write that our sympathies fly at once to Maitland, to Harland, and to the long-suffering wives of both. They must triumph, we feel sure; they will triumph; and in a sensational finale, they do triumph. The surprise ending is all the more effective in that every card of evidence has been face-up on the table. Miss Woods strikes straight at the emotions, and deserves her own triumph here.

To England from Australia, at the insistence of a sporting peer concerned with stopping dirty work on racetracks, comes young Dan Roke, horse-breeder, horse-fancier, and how-be detective. Posing as a stable boy in For Kicks, by Dick Francis (Harper & Row, $3.95), Dan succeeds in both parts of his mission for the National Hunt Committee, as well as having his troubles (and successes) with both Lord October’s beautiful daughters. The attendant hullabaloo enables Dick Francis, himself once a professional jockey, to write another exciting story about

Copyright (c) 2003 ProQuest Information and Learning Company
Copyright (c) Harper’s Magazine Foundation