Since books of short stories are notoriously difficult to sell, you may be surprised to find three such collections in a twelve-month. And yet the publisher of each had good reason. Soon after the success of his first anthology, *Rivals of Sherlock Holmes*, Sir Hugh Greene followed it with *More Rivals of Sherlock Holmes*, about gumshoes the world over during those early years 1891-1914. *Murder Most Foul*, M.W.A.'s '71 anthology under the editorship of Harold Q. Masur, upheld the high standard that has never failed us. If aristocratic or titled sleuths were listed by alphabet, beginning with Roderick Alleyn and ending with Prince Zaleski, perhaps the most famous would be Dorothy L. Sayers's Peter Death Bredon Wimsey, younger brother of the Duke of Denver. His twenty detective exploits, gathered together in *Lord Peter*, made (and still make) a dazzling landmark for the year.

Factual crime reconstructed? Again we have fared well. *Great Mysteries of History*, by Kenneth B. Platnick, offers sixteen unsolved enigmas, from the death of Amy Robsart in 1560 to such later grotesques as the Abominable Snowman or the Loch Ness Monster. *The Case of Kitty Ogilvie*, by Jean Stubbs, strikes fiery sparks from an eighteenth-century poison drama of ailing husband, errant wife, gay seducer, inevitable end. Jean Plaidy's high-flying *Murder Most Royal*—one victim Queen Anne Boleyn, second wife of King Henry VIII; the other victim Queen Catherine Howard, his fifth wife—starkly reveals the truth about this callous Caesar, whom legend has changed into an almost avuncular figure of fun.

Today, with new books so outrageously priced, let's welcome our current bonanza of paperbacks. Here are ten titles from Dame Agatha Christie, as well as Sax Rohmer's first three novels about untiring Dr. Fu-Manchu. Nero Wolfe, as directed by Mr. Stout, attacks two difficult cases; James Bond takes on organized crookdom rather than espionage. And don't forget G. K. Chesterton's *The Man Who Was Thursday*, either as philosophical fantasy or as rip-roaring cloak-and-dagger with sensational if non-lethal end.

Now for unfinished business. Some time ago, among many fine Sherlockian studies published by Luther Norris, I praised Marvin Kaye's *The Histrionic Holmes*. Several Holmesians asked where they might procure an item unknown to local booksellers. If you are among the curious, write to Mr. Norris at 3844 Watseka Avenue, Culver City, California 90230. You won't regret it; it should prove an open sesame into the enchanted world of Baker Street.
