106
MURDER-FANCIER RECOMMENDS

ity—what? who?—were conspiring against jockeys to kill or ruin them.

The narrator, young Rob Finn, scion of a musical family who is determined to succeed as a jockey, finds the same fate overtaking him after his initial triumphs. Horses which ought to win (different horses, from different owners or trainers) seem unaccountably struck with paralysis as soon as.Finn is in the saddle. The whisper goes round that he has lost his nerve, which can mean the end of him. But Finn, refusing to accept accident or coincidence, scents human malice and follows it. After a last wickedly ingenious attempt to prevent him from riding a big race, he traps the culprit and finds vengeance. The author, himself formerly a jockey, could not write a dull word if he tried. The betting is that almost anyone will enjoy Nerve.

No Place for Anyone

If you have not already made the acquaintance of Captain José Da Silva, liaison officer between the Brazilian Police and Interpol, the oversight should be remedied in The Shrunken Head, by Robert L. Fish (Simon and Schuster, $350). The engaging Da Silva and his friend Wilson, from the American Embassy in Rio, are drawn into one of the better mystery adventures. An American explorer, John Bailey, has disappeared into the jungles of the upper Amazon. The explorer’s head, literally shrunken after a fashion more extreme than that used by most psychiatrists, is sent as a present to the Brazilian Foreign Office.

Dispatched by the Foreign Minister on a mission to discover what is happening, Da Silva and Wilson are followed by the beautiful Elena, the Foreign Minister’s secretary, whom Da Silva has tried to discourage on the grounds that the Amazon jungle is no place for a woman. It is no place for anybody. Elaborate dirty work is being planned by a vicious character called The Knife; all too soon the investigators understand its nature, through fast action scenes culminating in an explosion of violence lighted by the flames of burning gasoline, and with a neatly ironic touch at the end. Score it Grade A-plus.

Anyone looking for a straight-for-ward puzzle, in which patient police work and a little inspiration combine to solve a crime more ingenious than it appears on the surface, could do worse than read Frame-Up, by Andrew Garve (Harper & Row, $3.50).

An elderly and well-to-do painter is murdered in a London suburb. There are three suspects, all of whom have apparently very strong alibis. The Scotland Yard chief inspector assigned to the job at first flounders into dead ends, being only human. By the time he realizes which of the alibis was faked, and how it must have been faked, we have spun through a smooth story of believable characters to a lively end.

The characters in Will Anyone Who Saw the Accident . . . , by Jeffrey Ashford (Harper & Row, $3.50), are also human and credible in every respect, and the solution more ingenious than we suspect. The son of a solicitor in an English provincial town, given too-casual treatment by his girl at a fairly uninhibited party, gets very drunk, leaves the party, and is apparently guilty of a hit-and-run killing as he drives home. The boy’s father—himself an uninhibited character with an intriguing mistress—becomes involved in a pull-devil battle with the police to protect his son. Motives interweave toward near-disaster and a finale which (for one reader, at least) was a complete surprise. The book is not a world-beater, but it is very good, and Jeffrey Ashford a writer to be watched.

The story of espionage, again so popular since James Bond has been progressing through blondes and card games to plots against earth’s serenity, will be found in Death’s Foot Forward, by George B. Mair (Random House, $3.95). “George B. Mair,” in real life a practicing doctor and by his turns of phrase a Scot, sends his own secret agent, Dr. David Grant—half-English, half-American, we are told—on a tricky mission into Russia. Grant, with more lives than James Bond or any cat, and a lovely ballerina for a mistress, smuggles himself into the Kremlin to kill a Soviet scientist and steal specimens of a new “bug” for bacteriological warfare. He meets a worthy antagonist in Lieutenant-General Sokolnikov, of Soviet Security.

Death’s Foot Forward has weaknesses. Dr. Grant kills as freely as Bond himself, and sometimes unnecessary; he wears a death-dealing ring equipped with a “mysterious poison unknown to science,” which the rules of the Detection Club forbid; and there are patches of in-different writing. But let’s take what we can get. The background is vivid. the action swift, and many of the details are almost convincing. Those who make Dr. Grant’s acquaintance will not be sorry to meet him again.

Tradition Flouted

Another story of secret agents, The Spy Who Came In from the Cold, by John Le Carré (Coward-McCann, $4.50), has evoked such hysterical praise as to become a runaway bestseller. I include it here because it deserves to be included. It is an excellent story, almost as well told as they say it is. And yet, though I admired it, I did not like it.

The tendency today is toward heroes (or protagonists, if you will) so unglamorous or so downright unheroic that we wonder what they are doing there. This is well enough; it is a fashion; stet. But one tradition ought not to be flouted. For those of us who were brought up on the adventures of John Buchan’s Richard Hannay and Valentine Williams’s Okewood brothers in World War I, the hero must triumph over his enemies as surely as Jack must kill the giant in the nursery tale. If the giant kills Jack, we have missed the whole point of the story.

Over The Spy Who Came In from the Cold there hangs, from the start, an atmosphere of doom. Any veteran reader will know that the protagonist is doomed; he can’t win. “This is what espionage is really like,” the author seems to be saying, or perhaps, “This is what life is like, confound you.”

Very well; let the correction be accepted. We should be grateful for so able a writer as John Le Carré, and for so compelling a tale of struggle at the Berlin Wall. But let the dice be not too heavily loaded against a poor-devil hero; let the angels themselves be permitted to deliver a knockout punch, as once or twice, in a blue moon of undercover affairs, we know that they really do.

Copyright (c) 2003 ProQuest Information and Learning Company
Copyright (c) Harper’s Magazine Foundation