92

THE NEW BOOKS

sympathetic part-owner of a bar-restaurant outside Bonn in West Germany, has been drawn into intrigue against his will. And very dirty intrigue it proves to be. Mac's friend and business partner, Mike Padillo, himself an American secret agent under pressure of blackmail by federal authorities over a matter of doubtful citizenship, has gone on a mission into East Germany; can he manage to return? When Moscow offers to exchange two American defectors for one bona fide Yankee spy, that same Mike Padillo, the secret deal is made. Venturing beyond the Berlin Wall to help his friend, Mac McCorkle shoulders through an inferno of murder and treachery which gives him no release even when he has emerged on the right side of the Wall. There must be more international shell games from Mr. Thomas; few newcomers have made a debut of such distinction and skill.

In The 9th Directive, by Adam Hall (Simon & Schuster, $4.95), we are back on the familiar ground of British Intelligence, with Whitehall seven thousand miles away. Quiller, the damn-your-eyes loner of The Quiller Memorandum, turns up in Bangkok for his most explosive assignment. A Royal Person (never named, but clearly Prince Philip) will visit Thailand on a good-will tour of the East. Security fears assassination, which has been threatened. The true plot, though not assassination, is a design fully as ominous. Caught offguard when they spring the trap, Quiller must alter his tactics at once. It is rough going through the underworld, amid opium fumes and flying bullets, until—with the assistance of a girl from the British Embassy; sex has slipped in too-Quiller frustrates the enemy in another triumph for himself and another ringing bull's-eye for Adam Hall. The Empire may no longer exist, more's the pity. Men like Quiller do still very much exist. "You may take to the wings of the morning, and flop round the earth till you're dead; but you won't get away from the tune that they play to the bloomin' old rag over'ead."

Let it be so; we're all content.

Jean-François Steiner's book, Treblinka. In the spring of 1942, the Germans decided to build an extermination camp for the Jews of Warsaw on a damp, sandy plain situated on the Siedlec-Malkinia railway. Although Treblinka is the story of hell on earth, of man's ultimate humanity to man, very little has been known about the camp.

There are several reasons for this. The corpses of the victims were systematically burned, on the orders of Himmler. In fact, the technicians at first experienced frustrating failures in performing this task until the arrival of an expert in cremation, Hubert Floss. It was Floss who proudly demonstrated that old corpses burned better than new, the fat better than the thin, women better than men. A judicious stacking of bodies, together with the discreet application of wood and gasoline, resolved yet another of the Reich's troublesome problems.

After the final revolt of the Jews of Treblinka the camp was razed, the land plowed, and the documents destroyed. Whereas the Commandant of Auschwitz was put on trial at Nuremberg, the Commandant of Treblinka, Kurt Franz, disappeared without trace. Of the six hundred Jews who escaped in August 1943, only forty had survived when the Red Army arrived a year later. In gathering his material, Steiner has made use of the testimony gathered by a Polish Court of Inquiry in 1945 and by the Yad Vashem Institute in Tel Aviv, but the bulk of his evidence is derived from interviews with the survivors. For this harrowing task the author had a personal motivation; he was two years old when his father and part of his family were deported from France to concentration camps. They did not survive.

Steiner has written out of horror and compassion, yet his book is all the more remarkable for its lucid objectivity. Its catalogue of atrocities causes one to write and sweat, but its real value lies in its constant posing of questions and its penetration of Jewish psychology in the face of racial extermination. The story be-

Final Solution
by David Caute

Treblinka, by Jean-François Steiner. Simon & Schuster, $5.95.

The true greatness of the Jews, wrote Jean-Paul Sartre in 1944, is their mildness, their obstinate sweetness in the face of brutal persecution, their faith in justice and reason when confronted by blind hatred. This ethic of nonresistance was molded as much by pragmatism as by theology; it was an ethic of survival. But when it became obvious that the Nazis intended to carry the pogrom to its logical conclusion, to total extermination, Jewish passivity assumed a suicidal quality. One recalls the (perhaps) apocryphal story of the two Jews who faced a firing squad. One Jew demanded loudly that a scarf be tied across his eyes; his companion began to tremble. “Sin!” he whispered, “don’t make trouble!”

Events since World War II may tempt us to contrast the behavior of the European Jews with the national liberation movements, the armed rebellions, of the colonized populations of Africa and Asia. But the parallel is too facile. A revolutionary ideology demands some sense of national history and national identity. For the Jews, history had stopped two thousand years ago; as Germans, Frenchmen, Poles, and Lithuanians who were neither completely integrated in nor completely alienated from their own national communities, they could discover no framework for solidarity and resistance except Zionism. Algerians and Vietnamese have been able to regroup and organize their forces in mountains and jungles; the Nazis surrounded the ghettoes and transformed Israel into an unattainable dream.

The predicament of the East European Jews emerges powerfully from

Mr. Caute, a novelist and historian, is currently a visiting professor in the Schweitzer Program in the Humanities at New York University.

Copyright (c) 2003 ProQuest Information and Learning Company
Copyright (c) Harper's Magazine Foundation