sympathetic part-owner of a bar-restaurant outside Bonn in West Germany, has been drawn into intrigue against his will. And very dirty intrigue it proves to be. Mac's friend and business partner, Mike Padillo, himself an American secret agent under pressure of blackmail by federal authorities over a matter of doubtful citizenship, has gone on a mission into East Germany; can he manage to return? When Moscow offers to exchange two American defectors for one bona fide Yankee spy, that same Mike Padillo, the secret deal is made. Venturing beyond the Berlin Wall to help his friend, Mac McCorkle shoulders through an inferno of murder and treachery which gives him no release even when he has emerged on the right side of the Wall. There must be more international shell games from Mr. Thomas; few newcomers have made a debut of such distinction and skill.

In **The 9th Directive**, by Adam Hall (Simon & Schuster, $4.95), we are back on the familiar ground of British Intelligence, with Whitehall seven thousand miles away. Quiller, the damn-your-eyes loner of *The Quiller Memorandum*, turns up in Bangkok for his most explosive assignment. A Royal Person (never named, but clearly Prince Philip) will visit Thailand on a good-will tour of the East. Security fears assassination, which has been threatened. The true plot, though not assassination, is a design fully as ominous. Caught off-guard when they spring the trap, Quiller must alter his tactics at once. It is rough going through the underworld, amid opium fumes and flying bullets, until—with the assistance of a girl from the British Embassy; sex has slipped in too—Quiller frustrates the enemy in another triumph for himself and another ringing bull's-eye for Adam Hall. The Empire may no longer exist, more's the pity. Men like Quiller do still very much exist. "You may take to the wings of the morning, and flog round the earth till you're dead; but you won't get away from the tune that they play to the bloomin' old rag over'ead."

Let it be so; we're all content.
