102
THE JURY BOX

Gravesend Pier. Cribb’s technique in foiling the plot while nailing the culprits marks another victory for Sergeant Cribb and another triumph for Mr. Lovesey.

The power of The Power Killers, by Judson Philips (Dodd, Mead, $5.95) may be financial, social, political, always some form of blackmail. Conscienceless tycoons use it to manipulate the earth, falling back on violence only when subtler pressures fail.

Young Rod Chandler, son of the tycoons’ lawyer, tries to expose their plot for the oil of a South American country. No sooner has he enlisted Newsview’s crusading Peter Styles than Rod’s girl is shot to death and he himself kidnaped.

This less than subtle warning seems to have been duplicated. The leader of the South American oil country also disappears, abducted as Rod Chandler was, with a high price for his return. To unravel the tangle and prevent more tragedy, engaging Peter Styles takes up a trail of death or abduction at every turn.

With his own wife vanished and his own life in jeopardy, Peter seems to face impossible odds. But it’s nothing new. He keeps his wits about him as surprises explode on every side in this box of tricks, carefully prepared by an old pro for what might be called wholesome shock effect. And he emerges triumphant. We understand everything before that last burst of gunplay fittingly brings down the curtain on a stormier escapade than most of us stay-at-homes can know.

Since the last item for consideration is The Methods of Uncle Abner, edited by Tom and Enid Schantz (Aspen Press, $6.95), you may ask why I include it at all. Here are four adventures of Uncle Abner, that stern biblical figure whom Melville Davisson Post imagined as reading riddles and righting wrongs in Virginia’s hill country before it became West Virginia in 1863. Three short tales and a novelette, hitherto published only in magazines, have been gathered into a book for the first time.

Why review it? If you tell me my job is to select books for the general reader I must reply that no follower of this magazine can possibly be described as a general reader.

He is a specialist, a connoisseur who already honors the genius of the late M. D. Post. If I ignored four “unknown” Abner stories, even though these may not be the author’s best work, the connoisseur in question would poison me with curare and dance on my grave.

By commending the book, observe, I avoid that fate.
