THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Once more a mixed bag, four new items in wide assortment. You will find one novel of lethal intrigue among the military, one historical imbroglio in which an English sleuth of almost a century ago is matched against Irish terrorists, one mystery-thriller to stir your wits, and, finally, a collection of four shorter pieces whose inclusion here must be explained.

In The Algonquin Project, by Frederick Nolan (Morrow, $5.95), a plot to assassinate controversial American General Campion at the end of Hitler’s War is planned by no foreign agent, but by the general’s own compatriots in his own army. From all sides we watch the assassin’s trail as American, British, even Russian intelligence services unite to frustrate him.

What eventually happens, whether their best efforts can head off the professional killer called Shelley, is spun out in scenes of breathless interest from Berlin to Zurich.

Though real-life persons appear in this narrative, its main characters are fictitious. And the author is not as frank as he seems. Even when we think we know everything, Mr. Nolan reserves one final surprise to twist the knife and point no moral for the conclusion of as exciting an adventure as we shall read this year.

Peter Lovesey’s The Tick of Death (Dodd, Mead, $5.95) presents doughty Sergeant Cribb, of the original Scotland Yard, in Victorian mystery melodrama, 1884. Irish fanatics, agitating for Home Rule with dynamite blasts, have wrought minor chaos.

Sergeant Cribb can feel grateful for police instruction about bombs. Abducted by one group of Dynamiters whose moving spirit is red-haired Rossanna McGee, militant child of militancy, Cribb must himself pose as a terrorist and convince this United Brotherhood of his destructive skill.

When he has succeeded, concealing a trick or two up his sleeve, they choose him for their most ambitious project: to blow up a certain royal personage aboard the yacht Hildegarde at

© 1974 by John Dickson Carr.
101
