prints and your sales continually diminish."
Well, they had the eccentric judgment to elect me in 1936. And since the oath is not secret, it can be quoted here without violating confidence or copyright.
Though I have attended no gathering of the brethren for more than a decade, membership in that club is for life. I am therefore entitled to wonder how its all-too-critical committee would regard today's omnipresence of cloak and dagger.
We have seen several devices not unlike death-rays, and there are more sinister Chinese than in the palmiest days of Sax Rohmer. The first-rate spy story, let's all agree, need not be constructed according to such purist principles as those above. On the other hand, what a joy when it can be and is! Of four titles heartily recommended this month, three are new and three are novels of espionage in the grand manner.
The Smile on the Face of the Tiger by Douglas Hurd and Andrew Osmond (Macmillan, $5.95) must be given high honors. Not only will it satisfy every rule of the Detection Club, but it's carefully prepared surprise finale, explodes like a mine. Though the main action has been set in the future, we are projected only to the easily imagined future of 1976.
Laurence Pershing, once a British junior during that past war in the Far East, is now a cabinet minister of the ruling Tory government. With an impossible wife but a charming mistress, he can look forward to still more distinction if he is not overtaken by a well-meant error out of his past. When the People's Republic of China demands that the British give up Hong Kong, sending tigerish Chiang Li-shih to London, the error does catch up and Pershing seems finished.
But he is not finished; Chiang Li-shih, the tiger, may have caught an infuriated lion with claws as deadly as his own. After deft move and counter-move, after convincing behind-the-scene glimpses of government both British and Chinese, the action whips at breakneck pace to its sensational end. No better story is likely to be published this year.
Whether or not you yourself have a touch of Scots blood, you will greatly sympathize with Secret Agent John Craig in The Innocent Bystanders, by James Munro (Knopf, $5.95). Employed by Department K, British Intelligence, Craig serves a devious M.I. boss who says one thing and means another, being almost as untrustworthy as the enemy.
115
LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED