Aaron Kaplan, Russian scientist imprisoned for independent thinking, has escaped from Siberia and disappeared. Somewhere in Turkey, Kaplan will defect to the West with his immensely valuable secret if either British or Americans can find him. But Russia wants him too; beware the K.G.B. In theory aided by two British agents he himself has trained, John Craig must rescue the lost scientist and bring him back alive.

Sent to New York for briefing, Craig has several brushes with the K.G.B. (or is it the C.I.A.?) before he gathers up attractive. Miriam Loman and lights out for Istanbul. Mayhem, murder roll through the Middle East from Turkey to Cyprus. Everybody is double-crossing everybody else; the British agents themselves seem up to no good; and the person who appears most double-crossed proves the worst double-crosser of all. Let me commend you to another brilliant novel; you alone will never once be double-crossed.

Dorothy Gilman's The Amazing Mrs. Pollifax (Doubleday, $4.95) is American espionage with a bang. Don't be suspicious of any spy story written by a woman about a woman. Suspend disbelief in this middle-aged New Jersey widow as a C.I.A. agent, and you will accept Emily Pollifax with liking or even affection.

Once more we are off to Istanbul and the Turkish countryside. Abetted through spectacular exploits by a harum-scarum young Briton and an alleged Greek sailor, despite all violence Mrs. Pollifax has one hell of a good time. Depend on it, so will you.

No fine new straight detection being at hand, let's turn with rclicf to The Rasp, by Philip Macdonald (Avon, 95¢), that classic off the nineteen twenties with which a master craftsman gave us Colonel Anthony Ruthven Gethryn, formerly of the British Secret Service during World War I.

It's an ugly business. Cabinet Minister John Hoode has been messily slain, head battered with the heavy file called a rasp. Everybody looks suspicious because so few look suspicious, including a lovely dark-haired lady who swam the river at night.

Both Mr. Macdonald and Colonel Gethryn, happily, are still with us today. Gethryn has unravelled no tangle more ingenious than this, his maiden effort. Its colors gleam as brightly now as they shone more than forty years gone, when all life seemed simple and even we grayboards yet were spy.

116

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED