## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

Well, it has not been an easy month for books. Several adequate and tolerable items have landed on my desk. But the merely adequate and tolerable won't do. When this department opened its doors, you were promised only the best blood and thunder on the market. Failing a sufficiency of outstanding new books, I said, I should beg leave to mention old favorites, especially those now available in paperback.

And the time for it has come sooner than I wanted or really expected.

This month we shall consider three titles rather than the customary four. However, since all have high quality and the third is almost six hundred pages long, such an arrangement seems only fair. The first two are novels, detective classics from a bygone day. The last is both new and factual, a detailed biography of America's greatest detective family.

Just over forty years ago (in 1926, to be exact) the late Willard Huntington Wright, under the pen-name of S. S. Van Dine, inaugurated his series of fair-play detective stories featuring Philo Vance, a young New York aristocrat and patron of the arts who could never stop talking about art. No other fictional detective, during Vance's dominant period from the nineteen twenties to the early thirties, exercised so much influence—or provoked so much argument. Any discussion of the novels themselves seemed to revolve less round whether they were good detective novels (and at least half a dozen were very good) than round whether you liked or disliked Philo Vance. He had many detractors, one of whom made vocal their feelings with the refrain that 'Philo Vance needs a kick in the pance.'

But most of us, in those days still youngsters learning our trade, could not help liking Philo, despite his tendency to favor us with little discourses on Cézanne watercolors, translations of Menander, or whatever else preoccupied him. We also liked his associates: solemn, no-nonsense District Attorney Markham, and doughty Sergeant Heath of the Homicide Bureau, a ham-handed cop (for once) sympathetically portrayed.

The author's masterpieces, The Greene Murder Case and The Bishop Murder Case, have not yet appeared in paperback in this series. Meanwhile, for a very modest sum you may buy either or both of Vance's first two adventures, complete with footnotes, diagrams, and digressions too.
