In The Benson Murder Case, by S. S. Van Dine (Fawcett, 75¢), Alvin Benson, Wall Street broker and gambler, is shot through the head amid many dubious associates. Using his once-famous ‘psychological’ method, Vance tears apart an elaborate and craftily spun web. The people of this book debate our hero’s character as heatedly as reviewers were soon to do. The part of Philo Vance, said by his creator to look like John Barrymore, was played in early talking films by almost every leading man except John Barrymore. Here is how it all began.

The Canary Murder Case, by the same author (same publisher, same price) dives at once into the half-world. Since writers used polite language four decades ago, nowhere are we told in blunt words that Margaret Odell, the ‘Canary,’ is a high-class prostitute.

But her activities (including blackmail?) become all too clear when someone strangles her amid the wreck of her apartment, where it seems nobody could have got in to do the strangling. Vance spots the murderer by watching him play poker, which may seem too easy. And yet it is very appropriate that the whole trick of the murderer’s plot should be wrecked by Vance’s taste for classical music. Culture does have its uses on occasion.

And now for fact. In The Pinkertons: The Detective Dynasty That Made History, by James D. Horan (Crown, $7.95) the author combines immense thoroughness of research with a sparkling readability that never falters or flags.

It was in 1842 that hard-headed young Allan Pinkerton, political rebel from Glasgow’s toughest slum, fled with his bride to America, where later he founded a detective agency which had begun to flourish even before the Civil War. During that conflict, as Chief of the Union Secret Service and fanatical admirer of General McClellan, he blundered more than once in exaggerating Confederate strength. But he won great success and prosperity in later years. When two worthy sons succeeded him, the former Scots radical had long hardened into a dour arch-conservative at war with labor.

The Pinkerton badge of the open eye has given us the ‘private eye’ of fiction. And this book is more than good fare for the crime-minded. It is an achievement; you will see living history unfold.