only 13 of the 26 programs have been sold to American television (for PBS showing). We can only hope the remainder are also soon

acquired and with the three new American series will help raise the standards of the television mystery.

© 1975 by Chris Steinbrunner.

THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Friends, charge your glasses. Whether to round out the old year or usher in the new, December has proved more than fortunate. Though there are no straight detective stories, I can salute four brilliant mystery thrillers of which the first and the third, containing sound detection as well as thrill, may fairly be called memorable.

These stories alternate Ameri-can with British. The protagonist of our first three books, though he is or has been a government secret agent, must deal with some private plot or crisis privately or ganized for sinister ends. In our fourth novel the protagonist—no secret agent, but news-magazine photographer—is the only one called on to play secret agent in a far-reaching spy design.

CIA Agent Harry Calder, posing as part of a Tokyo business firm in Robert L. Duncan's Dragons at the Gate (Morrow, $7.95), has no rest at all. While saving a threatened economic conference, he must learn what has happened to the disappearing Japanese gold and defeat the enemy who would ruin him with a frame.

Complicated by inter-office treachery and at least two women, from his former Japanese sweet-heart to beautiful, greedy, amoral Hannah Mulridge, it's a near-deadly ordeal for Calder. But he's a good sort; he'll survive. Vivid characters, fast action, and much ingenuity of plot lend added grip to this powerful Oriental melodrama with all the evidence in sight.

The title of The Deadly Gold, by John Rossiter (Walker, $5.95), refers to a religious image of the Virgin, jewel-crowned, made of gold once filched by conquest, whose gory saga has not yet ended even at its mountain monastery in Spain.

Murderous Costain Quayle, British crime artist, is related to a political swell who would be embarrassed if their kinship were known. Therefore Britain's most daring secret agent, urbane Roger Tallis, must intervene when Quayle schemes to heist the golden relic from its shrine.

Drawn into the robbery by mistake, Tallis pilots a helicopter for Quayle and his savage associates, while at one side waits Carol Asher, that fetching female of sta-