138
THE JURY BOX

Fleming’s Casino Royale. And Journey into Fear, by Eric Ambler, scores high marks for one who has been providing tense espionage longer than anyone else in the group. If The Third Man may not be Graham Greene’s finest effort at undercover chicanery, you won’t escape the spell of this enchanter or the machinations of Harry Lyme.

The Franchise Affair, by Josephine Tey, bases both mystery and sensationalism on a famous case from the past, whereas Daphne Du Maurier’s My Cousin Rachel reverts frankly to the past for the psychological thrill of what perhaps will become a study in murder.

Many well-known characters stride here, including the pride of the Police Judiciare in Maigret and the Headless Corpse, or Perry Mason in The Case of the Crying Swallow.

Let one word be added in summing up. For special commendation I have chosen only my old favorites. But, whatever may be your tastes or even predjudices in blood and thunder, you can’t go wrong with this anthology.

Murder on Board, by Agatha Christie (Dodd, Mead, $7.95), contains The Mystery of the Blue Train, What Mrs. McGillicuddy Saw, and Death in the Air, three top-notch bafflers from the Mistress of Misdirection.

The Mystery of the Blue Train, with imperious Mrs. Kettering strangled amid suspects during 1928’s luxury service from London to the French Riviera, sets Hercule Poirot a challenge in theft as well as murder, and requires penetrating several disguises for its double-shock solution.

Death in the Air, written next though placed last in this trilogy, also features Poirot in poison-sting homicide aboard a Paris-London plane about 1935, eventually reminding us that no two similar coats are quite alike.

What Mrs. McGillicuddy Saw, as recently as ’57, deals with violence viewed through one train window from another as stout Mrs. McGillicuddy travels domestic ways to visit her old friend Jane Marple, kindly and successful spinster-sleuth who specializes in domestic crime.

You might try your own wits on problems from various stages of the author’s career. Though all the clues are there, be warned and look out! You won’t be cheated, but you may hoodwink yourself from such smooth presentation. In matters of this kind, good friends, Dame Agatha can’t be trusted one inch.
