THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Interest seems to have been roused by my inquiry into the term “son of a bitch,” its origin and history. One correspondent, serious or otherwise, informed me that Madame Curte, visiting this country after World War I, expressed a wish to meet “Mrs. O’Bitch,” who had so many sons in the American Army.

“And need philological research end there?” asks another correspondent. “Surely other such terms deserve attention, in particular certain four-letter words hitherto barred by prudery from everyday use?”

Perhaps, but I think not. Most such words are old English; they may be found in Chaucer. Besides, although practically any word may appear in print today, your friendly critic must exercise at least some small measure of good taste.

“Now forget what you’re not going to say!” the reader of this column may well observe. “What the devil do you say?”

Well, once more I have had luck. The four titles here examined are all new, our third item none the worse for being a paperback original. Permit me to laud two detective novels far from lacking in excitement, one mystery-adventure whose dirty work spans half Europe, and one real-life biography of an underworld baron from the nineteen thirties.

The protagonist of Rat Race, by Dick Francis (Harper & Row, $5.95), is neither a professional jockey nor even a follower of the turf. But Matt Shore, former airline pilot now conducting taxi flights to British race meets, heads straight through atmospheric disturbance at the track as well as up there. We meet easy-going Colin Ross; we very much meet Colin’s sister, Nancy, who begins by calling Matt a bloody skunk and ends with sentiments somewhat the reverse.

From the moment our Cherokee plane erupts in flames on the ground, this particular event becomes a race against villainy amid so many aristocratic and/or dubious characters, from Major Tyderman and Annie Villars to the Duke of Wessex himself.

© 1971 by John Dickson Curr.
72

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED