THE JURY BOX 73

Forever as ingenious as fair, the author has also learned deft construction: his sensational finale includes its equally sensational disclosure. Though I myself am no more a racegoer than Matt Shore or John H. Watson, I back this one.

In Ashes to Ashes, by Emma Lathen (Simon & Schuster, $5.95), for the second time this year Miss Lathen faces her banker-detective with a problem which seems beyond even John Putnam Thatcher of the Sloan Guaranty Trust. When Cardinal Devlin wants to dispose of impoverished St. Bernadette's Parochial School, in the New York Borough of Queens, bitter opposition to his plan engenders strife, riot, and murder.

It is difficult for a backwoods Presbyterian to share such very strong emotion at the threatened closing of their school. But we need not share an emotion to understand it; these people are all thoroughly, understandably human. And other kinds of emotion can produce similar results: a bomb threat to the Sloan engenders near-riot at that sacred bank itself. Though the author might have given us more clues, her solution is a stunner. Be warned.

The publishers state at once that in Don Smith's The Padrone (Fawcett, 756) our hero will tangle with the Mafia. No disservice is done. Some European spider has wrought a web intricate enough, deadly enough, to keep nerves on edge and blood at fever-heat.

When a bomb explodes aboard the private jet of Thomas Garfield, American tycoon with one base at Geneva, the sole survivor, blonde Doris Conway, proves to be so much more (and so much less) than the high-class prostitute she seems. Neither bullets nor blondes deter Tim Sullivan in his chase from Amsterdam to Geneva, from Rome to Palermo. In one old-fashioned sense we are taken for a ride, but—corpo d: Bacco!—it's a joy-ride.

As contrast to some fictitious old-time hoods of the item above, a biography of Arthur Flegenheimer, who became Dutch Schultz, Kill the Dutchman! by Paul Sann (Arlington, $8.95), presents some real old-time hoods when they still remained alive and, for a while, kicking.

This moral tale starts with the blasts which mowed down Schultz and some friends at a Newark tavern, then traces the Dutchman's career from its Yorkville beginning through his rise to power as king of Harlem's numbers racket and, alliteratively, Beer Baron of the Bronx before that gory end. Mr. Sann, himself an old time newsman, has vividly conjured up what used to be.

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED