she lives on in that white monstrosity of a country house, with all her bad manners intact.
To celebrate her seventieth birthday, Lady Balaclava's three handsome daughters—one married to a Swiss doctor, the second to a Dutch rose-grower, the third to an American millionaire—arrive from abroad with their customary gifts. Because she fears some hovering menace undefined, old friends of hers in high places send an old friend of ours now Detective Superintendent Henry Tibbett, who with his common-sense wife will keep an eye on the ceremony.
We must all watch closely. The birthday party and tea party becomes a Mad Tea Party with fatal overtones merging into uproar. Can any victim be poisoned when she has ingested no toxic substance? Don't fear cheating; Miss Moyes is too sound a workman to fall back on 'mysterious poisons' unknown to science.' There will be a way as well as clues to that way, if we are alert and on guard. And the author has written another first-class story, which discerning readers must not miss.
Though not without faults, Margaret Erskine's The Case of Mary Fielding (Crime Club, $4.50) employs straight detection and has strong emotional impact. The presence of beautiful Mary Fielding, battered to death four years before our story opens, can still be felt in the Sussex village where she lived amid friends and relatives as suspicious-looking as picturesque.
Whether or not Gerald Holt communicated with her on some psychic wave-length, the séance that afternoon forms only a prelude to other deeds of blood until Chief Inspector Finch reads their riddle and expounds the truth. Distinctly worth-while.
Though they failed to send me the book in hardcover, this edition of Sunday the Rabbi Stayed Home, by Harry Kemelman (Fawcett, 75¢) should please everybody as the third case for that likable cleric, Rabbi David Small of Barnard's Crossing, Mass., who encounters dirty work on his doorstep as inevitably as though he were an urban lieutenant of homicide.
Once more, from the beginning, civil war threatens among his parishoners. Though I can claim little knowledge of Judaism, Rabbi Small's flock sounds very much like the congregation of the Presbyterian Church in which I was brought up. They bicker, they argue, they come almost to blows before natural simmering-down restores their balance. Here are credible human beings entangled in a web of marijuana and murder, with Rabbi Small drawing triumphant conclusions from evidence we should have seen.
67