In quest of the portrait, despite his relations with Betty Jo Siddon, Archer stumbles through a murky realm of murder, of more disap-pearance, and of old sins with long shadows. Then the climax erupts. If Mr. Macdonald’s double-surprise disclosure lacks the thunderbolt shock he achieved in the single twist of The Chill, it’s a strong, intricately plotted mystery which will please any connois-seur. Score another success for the author and for Lew Archer.

Draw what inference you like from the play-on-words title of Douglas Clark’s Premedicated Murder (Scribners, $6.95), which features Superintendent George Masters, Scotland Yard, in a domestic murder imbroglio of human passions on the boil.

The case seems straightforward when Masters and his subordinates arrive at that upper-middle-class village near London. Roger Harte—crippled war hero, kindly soul, most popular man there—abouts—has been stricken with poison in the home of Lowther Close’s most unpopular man, abrasive Milton Rencory, whom only Harte himself liked or encouraged. And Rencory, cattle-food manufacturer, had access to the rare poison used.

But why should even Rencory have killed his one friend? Or, since Harte really was well liked, why should anybody have done it?

Superintendent Masters and his men, though they bicker among themselves, make a shrewd team. As living human characters pass before us, from Harte’s loyal widow to the local doctor, the retired Royal Navy captain, the chemist at the lab, Masters’s eye catches floating fragments of evidence like ashes from a certain bonfire; and he swoops in to end this fine first novel by a newcomer who never once cheats with the clues.

Berkely Mather’s With Extreme Prejudice (Scribners, $8.95) sees British Agent Peter Feltham committed against his will to an assassin’s job in the Middle East.

Tracking terrorist bandits, who must be “terminated with extreme prejudice,” leads Feltham south to Suez, then over to Cyprus for private killing amid the strife between Greek and Turk.

Helped by an English-educated Turkish girl, he finds answers in the booby-trap on the mainland, when almost everybody has been terminated except himself. Superior cloak-and-dagger; try it.

Do you wonder why America in 1876: The Way We Were, written by Lally Weymouth and designed by Milton Glaser (McGraw-Hill, $15.00), should be reviewed in this magazine?

The Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia marked the apex of a century’s progress in art, science, industry. That same year saw the apex of a century’s progress in crime, dirty work, and kindred achievements of America in ingenuity.

Financial scandal in the Grant administration; “Molly Maguire’s” condemned to hang en masse; a