tinental network of crime from his quarters in Limehouse. The second concerns the evil professor's elaborate revenge on his unfaithful minions. What about the third book in the trilogy?
GARDNER: It's set in the early part of the 20th Century, when various Communist elements were gathering in London; in 1907 Lenin was living there. Moriarty raises money in order to assist a Communist revolution in order, of course, to bring about chaos—the thing he's always wanted. “If we bring chaos,” he says, “the way will be open for us to gain control.”

THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

The month of October suggests Halloween’s en, jack-o'-lanterns, and all other japes of that night when evil spirits walk; it seems particularly fitting to report on crime.
Of four items chosen for your pleasure, the first two are fair-play detective novels, as fast-paced as they are vivid and ingenious; the third sweeps with bloody deeds of espionage-intrigue through a strife-torn Middle East; and the fourth may seem strange until examination shows that it belongs well within our province.
Thus forewarned, let’s go.
At the outset of The Blue Hammer by Ross Macdonald (Knopf, $7.95) we can predict that our old

EQMM: Have the Moriarty books been your most successful?
GARDNER: That’s a difficult question to answer. My snap answer would be yes. The most financially successful were the frivolous little Boysie Oakes books, which brought me occasional humorous critical acclaim, dubious movie acclaim, and a lot of copies sold. But I can never thank Weidenfeld and Nicholson enough for coming to me with the idea because I think Moriarty books have given me personally much more pleasure than anything I’ve done so far.

friend Lew Archer, Southern California’s most able private investigator, will be hired by a wealthy client to trace somebody or something mysteriously missing. But, since this author writes a true detective story, full of snares and traps, it’s the only predictable gambit.
The painting of some shapely blonde, sold as the work of a once-famous young artist, disappears from the home of millionaire Jack Biemeyer and his dissatisfied wife. Richard Chantry, the painter, himself vanished into nowhere more than two decades ago. This particular picture, if genuine and no relic of the past, proves Chantry very much alive.

124