bling, women, and the bottle; but not so addicted as to interfere with his career as a burglar plundering at will, who had a high old time until his foot slipped.

But did this picturesque soul

© 1976 by John Dickson Carr.

YOUR MONEY AND YOUR WIFE, by Ritchlo Perry. Houghton Mifflin Company, $6.95.

Philis married!? Vastly out of character though it seems, as we rejoin the hardluck SR (2) operative in his cleverest suspense adventure. His bride is kidnapped, and it doesn't take Philis long to learn that espionage politics, specifically the KGB, are at its roots. As usual, Philis can count on little support from his boss, so with little save his own slightly tarnished skills for collateral, Philis has no choice but to fall in with the KGB proposal. This double-dealing mission culminates in one of the widest chair-edge pursuits over.

THE MULTIPLE MAN. A Novel of Suspenso by Bon Bova. Bobba-Morrill, $6.95.

The president of the United States is the brilliant, charismatic, multi-talented James T. Halliday. He is on a junke! to Boston when the body of a mu-dered man shows up behind his hotel. The story is hushed up and Halliday becomes tight-lipped about it. His press secretary, Meric Albano, wondering why, starts digging. Another man has been murdered in the president's home state...another victim who looked like the president. Who were these men? What agency did they represent? Where did they come from? What was their real job? It's a story that could happen.

really die on the new gallows he himself had suggested? The author leaves this question in doubt; and, since Deacon Brodie was never vicious, some of us may hope he escaped the law after all.

AN AGATHA CHRISTIE CHRON-OLOGY, by Nancy Bluo Wynno. Ace Books, $1.95.

A unique book that chronicles the works of the most honored mystery writer of our time.

For the first time ever, a catalogue of every Christie title from The Mysterious Affair at Styles to Curtain, and every novel, short story collection, and play in between is available to the public. This is the only one-volume listing of Dame Agatha's works, presenting plot outlines, character analyses, and critiques in a light, easy-to-read style by an authority on Christie.

It is an Agatha Addict's dream-come-true!

DEATH HAS A THOUSAND DOORS.

A Novel of Suspenso by Will Cooper. Bobba-Morrill, $7.95.

The junior senator is arrested and all but indicted for the murder of the dancer-addict-prostitute. Witnesses, documents and large sums of money are used to build an airtight case until John T. McLaren takes the case and sets out to break the gigantic frame-up against the senator. McLaren suspects that the legendary El Patron maneuvered the whole set-up, but El Patron is as dangerous as he is anonymous.

"Cooper's suspense novel has plenty of action, excitement and mystery and ends in a breathless chase."—Publishers Weekly.

104