her husband. Pat Cadwall pur-sues both.
Mayhem and murder erupt when Cadwall’s trail crosses that of certain Soviet agents. As twist succeeds twist, with several more shocks for Christine Ritchie, that same trail leads back to England. There, when the heads of the spy ring are snared through Christine’s own plan, the speeding story sweeps round its final curve to an emotionally as well as politically satisfying end.
Alexandre Dumas’s Monte Cristo was no more intent to destroy an enemy than is Richard Silva, single-minded protagonist of Noel Hynd’s Revenge (Dial Press, $7.95).
As an American Air Force officer, captured by North Vietnamaese and inhumanly treated by some sadistic but unknown Communist torturer, Silva on his release vows he will find and kill that psycho despite any obstacle.
And the obstacles to finding him are many, since this involves politics; and you mustn’t cause embarrassment to the powers that be. Though many characters of many backgrounds meet or collide during Richard Silva’s saga, there’s no muddle; each has his own place in a pattern of much narrative skill.
Ignoring slights or evasions, Silva stays implacably on course from his first Washington interview to the deadly moment when, after one penultimate surprise, he corners his quarry in a Paris cellar. Always grim, with few concessions to romanticism, Revenge is none the less a man-trap that grips and won’t let go.
Some readers may be inclined to regard The Chinese Fire Drill by Michael Wolfe (Harper & Row, $7.95) as the most exciting adventure thriller in months. And it would be difficult to argue with this view.
Drawn into the undercover game by Margaret Eriksen, a fetching WAC colonel, Signal Corps Captain Michael Keefe takes cover for what might be called strongarm diplomacy. Evidence shows that Captain Bostwick, son-in-law of influential Senator Colville, is being held to ransom in Vietnam after his capture during a skirmish. At all odds Keefe must rescue Bostwick and his accompanying sergeant if they are still alive.
It’s a task even more formidable than it seems. The title, symbolic rather than descriptive, is explained as rip-roaring action carries our protagonist through every jungle peril and out again in triumph.
Very little fiction has been needed for Forbes Bramble’s The Strange Case of Deacon Brodie (Coward, McCann, Geoghegan, $8.95).
Scottish Church deacon, master craftsman, of genteel family and education, by day William Brodie looked as sternly respectable as any other Edinburgh councilman in the year 1788. By night he was addicted to gam-
103