scientists in this novel?
ASIMOV: Only if you count me, which I don't. I am a character in my own book. Darius Just unwittingly sets a catastrophe in motion and he knows it's a murder when nobody else does. He is at the American Book-sellers Association and, on occasion, talks to Isaac Asimov. Just is telling the story; Asimov is a character in the third person. Just doesn't write murder mysteries; Asimov does, and
THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR
For all your mentor's disbelief in the element called luck, he must admit it's been a lucky season. Though we are almost halfway through the year, worthy items continue to arrive; and, despite my cynicism, I am happy to be proved wrong.
This month you are recommended to three near-master-pieces of international intrigue, each with a flavor of espionage, and the novelized account of a famous Scottish housebreaker, long unsuspected, who robbed neighbors under a most respectable mask in rowdy Edinburgh of the late eighteenth century. Specifically—
The Left-handed Sleeper by Ted Willis (Putnam, $7.95) opens with a jolt when Mark Ritchie, respected Member of Parliament as well as prominent personality,
Asimov needs a mystery plot. Just tells him the story, and Asimov writes it up, with Just in the first person, himself in third person. And it's as nearly as possible as Darius Just would see it. I'm the comic relief, because that's the way Darius Just sees me. In the book, I talk to Darius across two meals, then I don't see him anymore. I felt cheated. Wasn't I going to meet him again? So, you see, I have to write another mystery about him.
suddenly deserts his beautiful wife and disappears. He has bolted just ahead of British intelligence, which holds proof that Ritchie is in fact a secret Russian agent, left "sleeping" for years while he attained his trusted post.
Then begins a polite if uneasy duel between Christine Ritchie, a wife forced to acknowledge her husband's defection but still remaining faithful, and Patrick Cadwall of MI 5, who must track down the traitor but can't help sympathizing with Christine.
When Mark Ritchie is seen in Beirut, Lebanon, the pursuit at last has some clue. They must do more than nail Ritchie himself; they must identify other members of a spy ring in Britain.
Aided by some mysterious source, Christine flies out to join
102