THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Attention, please! Beginning with this issue, under the new format above, your well-intentioned if maundering, critic will be allowed more space wherein to maunder on about mystery in general and current mysteries in particular. Kindly refrain from audible groans or hisses.

“For all your constant gripping about poor work,” I was told, “not once have you held up and pulverized a book by title or author. In the future, when you feel you must get after somebody, here’s your opportunity.”

And yet, except under unusual circumstances, I think I shall not avail myself of the privilege. Too well I remember words once spoken by an old acquaintance, Milward Kennedy, who more than thirty years ago reviewed for a London Sunday newspaper.

“Why should I waste my time and the reader’s,” he said, “airing all the faults of Admirals Die Laughing or There’s No Place Like Homicide? Let me find something most customers can enjoy, and ignore ineptitude not worth bothering about.”

My corollary reason for infrequent use of the bastinado does not arise, God knows, from innate kindness of heart. It arises from the quenchless hopefulness of the mystery-lover. Having devoured sensationalism since boyhood, we old-timers can recall several authors who couldn’t write, couldn’t construct, and couldn’t play fair, but could come up with some highly ingenious solution that atoned for everything. Today, tackling a story which begins badly and continues worse, no optimistic judge will fling it aside in mid-course. “Give the poor devil a chance!” whispers that inner voice. “Maybe he’s got something up his sleeve; read on and finish.”

Experience teaches that the author who trips over his own feet in chapter one is unlikely to become an expert gymnast by chapter twenty. But it did happen in those bad old days. And at least the new book has been honorably treated. You needn’t read the damn thing; no harm is done.

It would be pleasant to inaugurate this expanded column by naming four first-rate new novels. I can’t do that, but I can offer

93

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED