That very sympathetic secret agent, Sam Durell of the C.I.A., meets his most fantastic challenge with Assignment—White Rajah, by Edward S. Aarons (Fawcett, 60¢). Over Pasangara, riot-torn province in Malaya, United States Navy fighter planes have roared towards the inner hills and failed to return. Where are those planes?

Officially neither pro-American nor pro-Communist, this strip of Southeast Asia has its own government under Premier Kuang. With a temporary post at the American Consulate, Sam Durell must learn what has happened to the lost planes and their pilots. But Premier Kuang plans to expel him as undesirable. Colonel Tileong wants him jailed or dead. Even George Hammond, an 'old C.I.A. friend, seems to be obstructing Sam's mission. Every hand is against him.

Every hand? In imperialistic days the whole area was once ruled by each male descendant of an English adventurer, Anthony Merrydale, as White Rajah of Pasangara. The present rajah—old, deposed, living on sufferance—has two grandchildren of Anglo-Malayan blood. His grand-daughter, a raving beauty with a questionable past, has dropped her English name to be known only as Pala Mir. Yet, when Durell saves her life in a riot, the girl herself offers to help.

If he can reach an old palace in a distant mountain, he may discover what he wants to know. Both Pala Mir and grandpa lend aid through the jungle, with Communist guerillas ahead and Colonel Tileong in pursuit. After learning the trick of hijacking planes without suspicion, after nailing the traitor behind it all, Sam Durell reaches a conclusion as satisfactory as his last night with Pala Mir. Any reader will be happy too.

A.A. Milne's The Red House Mystery (Avon, 95¢) seems almost forgotten now that so many crooked dark roads have become a roaring thruway. I read the book on its first appearance in 1922; as might have been predicted, it seemed insufficiently sensational. For the very young devotee, who judges all detectives by Sherlock Holmes and all figures of menace by Dr. Fu Manchu, anything short of exaggerated omniscience or exaggerated villainy will fail to satisfy. I have read it twice since then: I couldn't have been more mistaken.

A.A. Milne, dead these fourteen years, was the only writer whom London's Detection Club elected to full membership on the strength of one novel alone. It belongs among the first of those countryside chronicles wherein the lawn-mower's whir is cut short by a revolver shot, the detective as human as the murderer, the evidence in sight. It was a fine achievement then; it remains a fine achievement today.

95

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED