THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

This month let's reverse our usual practice. Instead of ending with those choice items to which I would draw your attention, let me begin with them. Let me do this even before I settle down to sum up for the year. And two current books very much deserve your notice.

The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes, edited by Hugh Greene (Pantheon, $6.95), offers thirteen exploits from the case-books of sleuths who flourished in British mugazines during the greatest days of the great Sherlock, 1891 to 1914.

With the possible exception of Austin Freeman's Dr. Thorndyke, nobody here can so much as challenge the sage of Baker Street. Still, if prejudice may be expressed. I myself am drawn less by character than by ingenious plots with ingenious clues on display. These qualities we are given in plenty. Perhaps the best tales of this baker's dozen are two by Baroness Orczy: "The Mysterious Death on the Underground Rail-way," featuring the old man in the corner, and "The Woman in the Big Hat," featuring Lady Molly of Scotland Yard.

Emmuska, Baroness Orczy, a Hungarian noblewoman by birth, was taken to England at the age of eight. Best known as the author of The Scarlet Pimpernel, she also wrote first-class short detective stories. I met her once at the Detection Club: a small, vivacious old lady with white hair and flashing dark eyes. Though she had lived in her adopted country since 1873, she still spoke English with a slight foreign accent.

To name her first, let me repeat, may be the prejudice of one who sets ingenious fair play above all. But her sleuths walk in fine company here. John Thorndyke unmasks the misdirection of "The Moabite Cypher." Among others we have Arthur Morrison's Martin Hewitt; we have blind Max Carrados; we have Carnacki the ghost-finder, whose adventures in the occult or the pseudo-occult still constitute a criminous least. And this book is hereby offered as proof.

In Whit Masterson's The Death of Me Yet (Dodd, Mead, $4.50) you will find mystery-adventure-espionage of immense sweep and power. At first glance you may wonder how any of these elements could touch the life of Paul Towers, prosperous, happily married, ordinary-seeming

© 1970 by John Dickson Carr.
101