102
THE JURY BOX

young owner-publisher of a weekly newspaper in southern California, or why there should be several determined attempts on his life.

Neither the emotional pattern nor the background pattern has been quite what it seemed. When the eventual grisly pattern does take shape, forcing Paul towards death in his horned and devilish double life, the reader is not so much carried away as swept away with a roar. Tension mounts through excitement after excitement to a well-plotted surprise finale that should blow your ears off. Of its kind, be assured, The Death of Me Yet is as strong as anything we have seen so far.

With that satisfactory reflection I can glance back over 1970: Anyone indulgent enough to follow this column will have observed that there has been much less gripping than usual. Perhaps your correspondent was in a better temper; certainly there has been much less to gripe about. Every month produced at least one new title which could be recommended without reserve.

Since I mentioned espionage a moment ago, note that we have had a vintage year for cloak and dagger. High praise to The Smile on the Face of the Tiger, by Douglas Hurd and Andrew Osmond; The Innocent Bystanders, by James Munro; The Amazing Mrs. Pollifax, by Dorothy Gilman, the last-named being that rara avis of sensationalism, a spy story by a woman. To these add Assignment—White Rajah and Assignment—Star Stealers, paperback but new, in Edward S. Aarons's series about C.I.A. Agent Sam Durell, as well as the Chinese caper of The Dragon's Eye, by Scott C. S. Stone.

In the realm of mystery-adventure with fair play, you were assured of satisfaction with Oliver Bleeck's The Brass Go-Between; John Farris's The Captors; Alistair MacLean's Puppet on a Chain; Richard Meade's The Lost Fraulein; Victor Canning's Queen's Pawn; Kin Platt's The Pushbutton Butterfly; J. J. Marric's Gideon's River; Stanley Ellin's The Bind; Lou Cameron's The Amphorae Pirates; and, no less effective for being farcical, Donald E. Westlake's Somebody Owes Me Money.

Classic detection? A great deal of it, from old hands and newcomers alike. Try Murder To Go, by Emma Lathen; The Last Woman in His Life, by Ellery Queen; Many Deadly Returns, by Patricia Moyes; Death at the Chase, by Michael Innes; The Stately Home Murder, by Catherine Aird; Enquiry, by Dick Francis; The Best Man To Die, by Ruth Rendell; Finish Me Off, by Hillary Waugh; In the Death of a Man, by Lesley Egan; The Women of Peasenhall, by R. J. White; Deadly Pattern, by Douglas Clark; Wobble to Death, by Peter Lovesey; Archer At Large, the three-volume omnibus by Ross Macdonald; Death on the Nile, a hardcover reprint by Agatha Christie. To this category