belong the stories in *The Allingham Case-Book*, by Margery Allingham, as well as the best tales in *Merchants of Menace*, twenty-fourth anthology from the Mystery Writers of America, edited by Hillary Waugh.

Paperback reprints of various sorts have gladdened this old heart more than once. Judiciously chosen items included one account of a real-life murder society, Arthur H. Lewis's *Lament for the Molly Maguires*, one account of real-life espionage agents in *The Spies*, edited by Robert G. Deisdorfer, a good modern detective novel, Harry Kemelman's *Sunday the Rabbi Stayed Home*, in addition to two detective classics from the nineteen twenties, A. A. Milne's *The Red House Mystery* and Philip MacDonald's *The Rasp*, together with a notable collection of spy stories from about the same period, *Ashenden*, by W. Somerset Maugham.

Long live the paperback, and more power to its editors! In addition to gladdening my heart as a reader, they have also saved my face as a critic.

As regards reconstruction of real-life cases, imaginative probing into some mystery long past, there has been nothing new except *Mischief in the Mountains*, subtitled by its editors 'Strange Tales of Vermont and Vermonters.' Though this work received due praise, it lacked something as a rogues' calendar. In '69 we had both a history of the Pinkertons and a biography of Houdini. Possibly things even better are reserved for '71. Shall we learn the truth about the Bravo poisoning, or whose hand slew the Bordens at high noon that August day?

Stop; this won't do. Having boasted of little griping through the year, I must not end it with a gripe. Besides, such notions can backfire. When the late Ed Radin published his vindication of the more famous Borden sister, a group of us met for lunch as the Friends of Lizzie Borden. And not a man among us could have said whether we were celebrating Lizzie's innocence or congratulating her for having gotten away with murder.

Never mind. Serenely I await the new year.