## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

Well, now we come to it. Of four novels reviewed here last month, two were straight detective stories, one was an action thriller, and only one an uninhibited tale of espionage. On the present occasion, with four more titles to be discussed, no less than three are brilliant forays into the world of spies. And this prompts one inescapable reflection.

With spies all over the place everywhere, several of my critical colleagues have been moved to protest, sometimes with feeling, that we are getting too much of the cloak and dagger. Such complaints, valid enough when the critic has just tripped over a bad book, will never be heard from your obedient servant. Having been addicted to spy stories since the days of E. Phillips Oppenheim, I am hooked on this stuff and can't kick the habit.

But any fondness for espionage needs no defense, not even the defense of a joke. When such a story has been carefully plotted, with strong motivation and a strong central situation to carry all the gunplay, it belongs as legitimately to the field of mystery as does Trent's Last Case or The House of the Arrow. The best espionage novels will explode a surprise ending after honorably displaying the clues, always the mark of good detective fiction since Poe invented it.

Let's begin with the secret agents and wind up with the murder mystery. The Danube Runs Red, by Richard Meade (Random House, $4.95) will blow your ears off. Too often, in fiction at least, the American secret agent finds his own government conspiring to embarrass him as much as could any enemy. After shoving the poor devil into a position which might have been devised by the Kremlin itself, the American authorities tell him to find his own way out of it, or else.

Such a dilemma confronts John Allison, that cynical but sympathetic weapons broker with an office in London. After selling (with what he thinks is American approval) a huge load of arms to what should have been the Greater India Company, he finds the weapons have fallen into the wrong hands and disappeared. If he can't get them back in a hurry, it's or else.

While two beautiful women tilt up and down at opposite ends of a see-saw, with Allison reeling between them, the chase begins in Vienna and roars on to Hungary. A stunning surprise finale caught me completely
