off guard, though it may be said without immodesty that Old Ironface has never been a man easy to surprise.

In A Spy for a Spy, by Berkely Mather (Scribners, $4.95), we find the heads of British Intelligence as shifty and ruthless as their American counterparts at putting the screws on their own men. James Wainwright, the secret-agent narrator, has been pressurized by his boss into pressurizing a once-Russian, now-naturalized-British art-dealer with a genius for managing prison escapes. The art-dealer must contrive the escape of one Robert Carter, who has served the Chinese Communists before defecting to Russia and then drawing thirty years in a British nick for spying.

Once his escape has been effected, as they plan it, both Wainwright and the art-dealer will smuggle him to Hongkong, where the Chicoms, who want Carter’s head for defecting, offer a British prisoner in exchange.

Though they do break Carter out of the sneezer, everything else goes sour. The art-dealer can’t or won’t leave England; he sends his fiery daugh-ter, Sonia, to substitute for him. Hapless young Wainwright, who keeps beaning Russian agents with bottles when they try to hijack Carter, has even more trouble handling Sonia. The whole tangle is resolved satisfactorily—well, almost satisfactorily—on an island off the China coast. You can’t do better than A Spy for a Spy.

With Force 10 from Navarone, by Alistair MacLean (Doubleday, $4.95), the ever-dependable McMacLean whisks us back to Hitler’s War. Three survivors of an Allied team—Keith Mallory, the New Zealand Scot, self-possessed Dusty Miller, and Andrea Stavros, the big Greek—have no sooner wrecked Navarone’s guns than they are parachuted into Yugoslavia for further swift footwork behind the German lines.

As Nazi panzers mass to crush seven thousand Yugoslavs in a trap, the trio’s ostensible secret mission hides a real secret mission still more hair-raising. Bluff meets double bluff until the moment of truth beside an embattled dam. This is boys’ adventure magnified and in technicolor.

No more spies, for now. If you want a detective novel of compelling charm, try Selwyn Jepson’s The Angry Millionaire (Harper & Row).

Its protagonist, the year’s most engaging hero, we first meet as plain John Addis, with a lowly post at London’s great merchant bank of Hammond and Morgan. The reader soon learns he is Sir John Addis Hammond, who has inherited a controlling interest in the bank. While acting as chauffeur for that glacial beauty, Victoria Norton, he picks up the track of somebody’s gigantic fraud. Sustained by the delightful heroine, Rosemary Stewart, our angry millionaire attacks a problem of both fraud and murder. He wins; we cheer when he wins; who would want it any other way?
