THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

With entire justification Agatha Christie, in private life Mrs. Max Mallowan, has been called the Queen of Crime. I met her many years ago, when I made my home in England, and have been proud to count her a friend ever since. In person she is as likeable, as engaging, as her books are tricky, not to say sneaky, using both adjectives in high praise.

She herself will probably recall a game of Murder, according to new, different, more elaborate rules, played at my London apartment one night toward the end of the 1930's, with J. B. Priestley officiating as detective. The outcome of that game I have forgotten; Mrs. Mallowan's testimony stays vividly in mind. Challenged to account for her whereabouts at the time of the murder, she replied that she had spent the night with the Archbishop of Canterbury—praying.

Though an ecclesiastical alibi might have been more appropriate to Miss Sayers than to the creatrix of Hercule Poirot, I seem to remember she got away with it. Hercule Poirot and his little gray cells, as well as Agatha Christie and her little gray sells, have been bamboozling everybody since the appearance of her first novel, The Mysterious Affair at Styles, in 1920.

It is fitting, half a century later, that her American publishers, Dodd, Mead & Co., should reissue her works in the uniform Greenway Edition, modestly priced at $3,95 each. A dozen are available as this is written (April), with more to come. Since those now at hand include my own favorite, Death on the Nile, I can pay some small tribute to a great craftsman by choosing it as the subject of my lead review this month.

There will always be debate about Agatha Christie's best detective story. Despite claims for, The A.B.C. Murders or Cards on the Table, I still maintain that Death on the Nile, originally published in 1937, contains her most effective, surprise, finale. At once we are caught up by emotion, not only the broken triangle of Jacqueline de Bellefort versus Linnet, and Simon Doyle, but the emotions of other British or American characters thrown together in conflict as the Nile steamer Karnak leaves Assuan on its voyage of bloodshed.

111

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED