they really did carry on as they carry on here; in all likelihood, God help 'em, they still do.
Queen's Pawn, by Victor Canning (Morrow, $5.95) gives us mystery-adventure with speed, power, and impact. Andrew Raikes, our protagonist, is a gentlemanly crook who in most ways does happen to be a gentleman. About to retire before his fortieth birthday with a fortune from many con games, Raikes finds himself caught by the vicious, dwarfish, soft-yoiced John Sarling. Just one more operation, with Sarling to direct; then he may retire to Devon and Mary. Warburton.
Of course Raikes knows it's impossible. In the grip of a leech who can destroy him, he will never escape—unless, with the aid of a dependable old associate and of auburn-haired Belle Vickers, he plots in his own turn to crush the leech forever.
It can be done and is done; with ugliness but expertise. Though one menace has gone, another and worse menace forces him along lines determined from the first: somebody's move against the great new Cunarder, Queen Elizabeth 2. Mr. Canning, specialist in shocks, reserves one last shock for the closing pages. And Raikes, doomed soul or not, holds our sympathy until the end.
Combining action; espionage; and all sorts of dirty work work behind the scenes, Richard Meade's The Lost Fraulein (Random House, $4.95) fully lives up to the high standard he set with The Danube Runs Red. Again we meet John Allison, American arms merchant with much experience in using the commodity he sells. Alison needs his combat knowledge from the first chapter, when they try to blast him on a country road in Texas, to the climax in Acanara, West Africa, and that spectacular battle piece on the plain.
With only limited hope of a market, he has bought twenty obsolete Sherman tanks the Pentagon no longer needs. Those tanks, obviously, will turn up where they shouldn't. Pressured by the Great White Chiefs of the State Department to join the Great Black Chiefs of Acanara during civil war, Allison has been driven into an impossi-ble corner. And through everything wanders the lost faulein herself:
Erika Wolf, German sex-bomb, with her amatory talent and her strangely guilty conscience. You won't regret her presence in this suburb thriller.
113.
LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED