and panic. Though our enchantress gives us all the facts, hers is a siren voice which seems to be saying one thing while carefully saying something else. Even though you are adept at outguessing authors, be careful!

As there will always be debate about her best novel, so there will always be debate about her most famous. Is *Roger Ackroyd* fair, or does it violate the first rule of the game? While refusing to join in the argument, old devotees will remember that Mrs. Mallowan herself, several years before *Ackroyd*, anticipated her own device with a variation of the same theme which is still more ingenious, entirely fair, and may startle readers as late as 1970. I give no title; I name no names; I simply state the fact.

“Since we know the secret of *Roger Ackroyd*,” you may exclaim, “how can any variation of that theme have the least degree of novelty? Unless she fastens the crime on Mr. Dodd or Mr. Mead, perhaps even on Mr. Cerf of Random House or Miss Kahn of Harper, what in Satan’s name can she possibly do?”

Well, she can; she has done it. You are safe with any Christie novel, old or new. For the Queen of Crime does not age; she remains just as tricky, fully as sneaky, as in that fine unblushing past. I can think of nobody else who has entertained us so consistently, or so well, for a whole half century of homicide.

Of three new novels worth your attention this time round, it is not easy to classify **The Women of Peasenhall**, by R. J. White (Harper & Row, $4.95). Reconstructing a famous (still unsolved) tragedy of rural Suffolk in 1902, the author deals with real persons under their real names, stumbling down dark roads to a doubtful end.

Rose Harsent, the philandering servant girl, did in fact have her throat cut that night at Providence House. William Gardiner, sanctimonious carpenter and Sunday School superintendent, twice stood on trial for murder, free at last because both juries disagreed. Though probably the philanderer they said he was, Gardiner is unlikely to have committed that murder. Using as little fiction as possible, Mr. White attempts almost classic detection and finds a new answer.

It is not without errors. No sophisticated character in 1902 would have talked of Henry Irving doing *The Bells* at Drury Lane; it is as though a sophisticated character of later date referred to John Barrymore playing *Hamlet* at Minsky’s. And some of the slang is modern rather than turn-of-the-century. But the author catches every furtive aspect of village life below the surface. At one time
