BEST MYSTERIES
OF THE MONTH

recommended by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Luck has been with us this time round; there need be no gripping or critic's self-pity. Amid a host of indifferent items they have dealt me four winners, all new books; each employing a different technique or approach, each set against a different background, each moving towards a well contrived surprise finale, each charged with its own high-voltage power. And, though only the forth may be called a detective story of classic pattern, each follows the rules and plays fair.

These things being so, we may dispense with the little introductory sermon I so often inflict on you, and get down to business at once.

Hot Summer Killing, by Judson Philips (Dodd, Mead, $3.95) be-gins with the street-corner murder of a Negro playwright by four unidentified white assailants in downtown New York, and may end in a literal explosion that will destroy a whole segment of the city. To the Traffic Commissioner has come a note signed 'Black Power.' Unless Mayor Ramsay pays them ten million dollars by a given hour on a given date three weeks hence, threatens 'Black Power,' they will blow up Grand Central Station at the height of the commuter rush. And it is followed by an anonymous phone-call amplifying the threat.

A week later, evidently as proof of earnest, somebody plants under the Commodore Hotel a complex, powerful bomb which could have wrecked that entire neighborhood if the bomb had been equipped with a firing mechanism. Every twenty-four hours—at home, at his office, always at a different place—Traffic Commissioner Severance is pursued by phone-calls from the same untraceable source. And time grows shorter every hour.

Peter Styles, engaging Newsview columnist, is whirled into the action and almost whirled away. But Peter, with good reason to believe 'Black Power' may be only a mask for conspirators of a very different sort, struggles through sensational events to the still more sensational climax. You can't go wrong with Hot Summer Killing.

In an unnamed Midwestern city at Christmas, the background of MongoDB's Back in Town, by E. Richard Johnson (Harper & Row, $4.95) we are flung at once into an underworld of hoods and broads even more sub-human than usual. MongoDB Nash, professional killer, returns home to knock off a thirteenth victim if his brother, Mike

103