the Fence, will pay him enough for the contract. Of the two Nash brothers, MongoDB and Mike, we are still wondering which is. worse when the cops find Mike very horribly dead in his own bar, the recipient of a pint of acid in the face as well as three bullets in the chest. Who hit Mike the Fence? Who stole those counterfeit plates out of his safe?

Every line rings true, as it should. This is the author’s second novel, his first being written when he was doing time in Minnesota. But don’t let the casual brutality fool you. How carefully this story has been constructed, with every clue in plain sight, only the connoisseur will appreciate before Lee Gordon, special agent of the F.B.I. and one of the few good guys, disentangles the evidence at the end. Four stars and three cheers.

In Dead Straight, by Donald MacKenzie (Houghton Mifflin $4.95) 'Straight' is a surname which soon takes on sinister, ironic implications from the many puzzles attached to it. Macbeth Bain, that well-meaning young Canadian in London, tries hard to earn an honest penny after the one lapse that has drawn him a term in the nick; his loyal if overtalkative girl, Kirstie, serves as a vocal conscience to keep him at it. But jobs are hard to find until he sees the news-paper advertisement for "a man of resource and courage to act as companion," together with the promise (fulfilled) of an excellent salary.

Jessica Straight, an attractive blonde widow with a handsome house at Kingston Hill, wants to be protected from her insanely jealous husband, Mark, who has committed suicide six months ago but still persecutes her, she says, with phone-calls and other attentions from beyond the grave. Some alien presence, supernatural or not, has in fact been breathing menace from the shadows; death calls again at Kingston Hill; one plot-twist after another will drive the reader to three or four different theories before the roaring, racing finish.

Eilis Dillon's Sent to His Account (Walker, $4.50) propounds a classic-style riddle in murder against the beauty (we hear little about incessant rain) of the Irish countryside.

When aristocratic Miles de Cogan inherits the estate of his late uncle, he walks from poverty into riches amid characters who may be classified as both funny ha-ha and funny peculiar. They begin to seem less funny ha-ha even before overbearing Tom Reid lies poised in Miles's new home. Here are the real Irish, portrayed by an Irishwoman who knows and loves them; here is a well plotted mystery, solved by Miles and Inspector Henley of the Garda; here is a narrative that will charm you with every word.
