THE JURY BOX
BO JOHN DICKSON CARR

Due to the grotesquely inflated price of hardcover books, as there has been previous occasion to remark, it’s always a pleasure when I can recommend four paperbacks. And once more the miracle occurs, properly proportioned for balance.

Beginning with a pair of sound detective novels, the first a classic from the Golden Age and the second comparatively recent, we find them supported by one last season’s action thriller and one brand-new adventure of a favorite secret agent. Though chance supplied those proportions, design could have done no better.

Keeper of the Keys, by Earl Derr Biggers (Bantam, $1.25), is the last of the half-dozen Charlie Chan novels which Charlie’s creator wrote before his untimely death in 1933. Though I missed this story on its first appearance, our Chinese sleuth from Hawaii, with his wise saws and his unruffled temper, can be welcomed soon or late.

The four ex-husbands of Ellen Landini, beautiful but unstable opera star, have assembled at Dudley Ward’s luxurious home above Lake Tahoe. Ward, her first husband, seeks the lost son he thinks he has sired by Landini. Others, from husbands or servants to her latest fiancé, have different views. Amid a boiling of motives, suspects, and contradictory clues, Ellen Landini is shot to death near the study window.

If Keeper of the Keys cannot quite match Charlie Chan Carries On (also available from Bantam), it’s an ingenious, fair-play mystery remarkable for expert storytelling in this inept age. Pit your wits against the redoubtable Charlie; I venture to bet you’ll agree.

Emma Lathen’s Murder-Against the Grain (Pocket Books, $1.25), which I also missed on its original publication eight years ago, concerns a Russian grain deal imagined some time before our best businessmen were conned by this project in reality.

“America’s Agatha Christie,” who in writing good detection can also make finance almost intelligible to one with no head for it, again ensnares us into the affairs of the Sloan Guaranty Trust,

© 1975 by John Dickson Carr.

93