THE JURY BOX

by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Though we have entered that sluggish season, pre-fall, when by tradition publishers hesitate to sponsor worthy sensationalism, your mentor can find no cause for complaint. Heartily I welcome any whirl of the merry-go-round which provides two lively detective novels, one superior mystery-adventure, and one Victorian saga exploring murky byways during the reign of the Good Queen. Enough for prelude; let’s go.

Wit and sophistication, animating colorful or eccentric personalities in a picturesque Connecticut town, mark A Dying Fall, by Hildegarde Dolson (Lippincott, $5.95), as one of the best mysteries this year.

During the lifetime of her domineering tycoon father, handsome Grace Dilworth has reached mature years without learning much about men or their ways. Inheriting millions on her father’s death, Grace returns home from a long cruise with Davin Lowry, the impressive, theatrically handsome stranger she has determined to marry.

About Davin Lowry people can’t make up their minds. Fortune-hunter or honest man, real or phony, loving Grace or with other plans? Then besotted Grace and her bridegroom-to-be announce their intention of destroying the town’s cherished rose garden by turning it into a display ground for avant-garde statuary. Soon afterwards Lowry pitches down the steps into the rose garden, there to be found dead and impaled on a horrendous exhibit.

Retired Inspector McDougal and Lucy Ramsdale, that likable if cat-curious widow, investigate throughout tension by day and terror at night until a very vicious killer is snatched out from behind the screen of roses in this ingenious, polished performance by another candidate for high honors in the Ladies’ Baffle Brigade.

From the first chapter of Naked to the Grave, by Harry Carmichael (Saturday Review Press, $5.95), when Julian Davey’s lovely, faithless wife is slain and mutilated with a pair of scissors in the bedroom of the Hampstead flat, suspicion points straight at

© 1973 by John Dickson Carr.

122
