THE JURY BOX
By JOHN DICKSON CARR

If your mentor seldom leads his month’s choices with a book of short stories, the custom arises only from convenience in reserving such items for the end. This time, however, we shall begin with a short-story selection whose quality deserves pride of place in any company, despite the backing of three worthy novels.

Best “Thinking Machine” Detective Stories, by Jacques Futrelle, edited by E. F. Bleiler (Dover, $3.00), will be manna for judicious readers. Jacques Futrelle, that one-time journalistic wizard of the Boston American, wrote two volumes of brilliantly ingenious tales featuring Professor Augustus S. F. X. Van Dusen, the Thinking Machine. Georgia-born, New Englander by adoption, our author was still a young man when he died with the Titanic disaster in 1912.

As one much influenced by his stories of impossible situations rationally explained, I have often hoped for some reissue. The present ably edited selection contains every favorite, from “The Problem of Cell 13” to others already praised in this column. You will read of impossible murder by illuminating gas; you will read of the phantom motor-car which vanished from a road between stone walls; you will read of miracles not quite so miraculous under Professor Van Dusen’s scrutiny.

There are more such adventures, it seems, to be winnowed from old newspapers and magazines. Let’s hope that crabbed little scientist will be with us soon again.

Told in the first person by Karl Berger, Stockholm newsman who has bought a fancied horse, Olle Hogstrand’s The Gambler (Pantheon, $4.95) offers classic detection as well as characters all too human against its vivid background of harness racing in provincial Sweden.

At the track, amid such shady operators as Professional Gambler Svensson or Ring, the pornographic publisher, Karl Berger sees the collapse of a rival’s horse touch off arson, suicide, and murder. Who planted the syringe in the cupboard? Relying only

© 1974 by John Dickson Carr.
111