THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Optimism can never be cured; human nature forbids. Following last month's famine, which compelled your mentor to fall back on the storage-bin, I had hoped that this time round would see rich crops for harvest. Well, again we avoid extremes. If there has been no overwhelming richness, at least luck has provided four new items which can be recommended without embarrassment.

Since customarily we begin with detection, pride of place must go to Slayride, by Dick Francis (Harper & Row, $5.95). Narrator David Cleveland, in Norway as consultant investigator when the disappearance of a British steeplechase-jockey from Oslo's racecourse coincides with the disappearance of sixteen thousand kroner from the till, finds danger-fanged problems on every side. From the moment he is almost run down by a speedboat in icy water, among trainers, owners, and other enthusiasts David reels along slippery ways until the clue in the racing helmet reveals a plot even deeper than he has suspected.

In this firework display perhaps our author holds on a little too long, sending up a solitary Roman candle or two after he has touched off his grand finale set-piece. But reliable Mr. Francis, whose horse sagas contain no horseplay or any less mentionable product, combines all his ingenuity and all his skill at vivid characterization for as enjoyable a performance as readers can expect this year.

You are hereby pleasantly warned that Peter Driscoll's In Connection with Kilshaw (Lippincott, $7.95), superior mystery-adventure dipped in espionage, is loaded with high explosive from the start.

Into embattled Belfast, wrecked by the bitter civil strife of northern Ireland, slips a half-Irish Englishman on secret service for Britain. Harry Finn, self-styled newspaperman, must prevent full-scale war by silencing fiery J. C. Kilshaw, leader of the Protestant Loyalist Vigilantes. But equally dangerous loom up opposing Catholic Volunteers under IRA's redoubtable Sullivan,

© 1974 by John Dickson Carr.
91