THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Whatever may be the weather outside, this magazine’s calendar shows November. And so, with your permission, let’s glance back over the worthiest titles in '75. Last year, for some reason which now escapes me, your mentor summed up rather late. This year, due to certain publishing exigencies, it seems advisable to sum up rather early.

On the whole, then, we’ve had great good luck. The new books, though far from plentiful, have been of such very high quality that more than one must rank as memorable. Let’s devote ourselves to new items, leaving reprints for briefer survey at the end.

Detection first. Reverend Randolph and the Wages of Sin, by Charles Merrill Smith, introduces Dr. C. P. Randolph, Chicago’s Protestant parson-sleuth, with dirty work whose pace, vividness, humor, and fair play end in a double-surprise solution of which even the expert will anticipate only half. Don’t miss it.

Also sound investigation, Alan Hunter’s Gently with the Ladies again features Chief Superintendent George Gently, Scotland Yard, in a luxury-flat murder which, despite so many women at emotional conflict, will please the most exacting fan.

For the poisoning problems of You’re Never Too Old To Die, by Arthur D. Goldstein, a retired businessman turned amateur detective finds baser passions flaming as high in his Senior Citizens’ Center as anywhere among humankind. Unassuming, excellent.

One year’s tidewater flood of the River Severn, called Severn Bore, provides its title for Bored to Death, by Michael Delving, in which Dave Cannon, American art dealer exploring rural England, finds mediaeval treasure trove and traps an ingenious murderer to straighten out several tangles you will thoroughly enjoy.

Also enjoyable, Hugh Pentecost’s Time of Terror shows Pierre Chambrun heavily at odds with lethal hocus-pocus threatening in more than one sense to wreck his luxury hotel.

No addict need even be told he will enjoy Emma Lathen’s By Hook or by Crook, wherein Banker Detective Thatcher once more

© 1975 by John Dickson Carr.
94