THE JURY BOX
95
saves faces and sanity when the Sloan Guaranty Trust meets misadventure with Parajians, Inc., their fine Oriental rugs, and a fine old feast of homicide.
Mystery thrillers? If you crave excitement, try The Woodcutter Operation, by Kenneth Royce, in which armed criminals capture a great London hospital until inspiration finds our answer for the most explosive scene of all.
David Westheimer's The Avila Gold; though less violent, also grips fast with its frantic treasure-hunt underneath Los Angeles and its triumphant hero, mild-seeming Professor McDowell, UCLA.
No current heist, The Great Train Robbery, by Michael Crichton, brilliantly tells how a Victorian master criminal swooped down on gold meant for British troops in the Crimea.
Vividly studying morbid patterns, William P. McGivern's Night of the Juggler traces Gus Soltik, child-rapist and killer, from his first vicious outbreak to the snare in Central Park.
And now for espionage. In The Man with Two Clocks, by Whit Masterson, well-meaning young Michael Lord escapes charges of treason only through exploits during which clue after clue builds towards a surprise wallop at the end.
If Robin Close's The Bohème Combination seems mainly a combination of crooks, it needs great skill in the British Treasury man who must foil Soviet plots despite treachery at home.
In The Judas Sheep, by Jan Roberts, a London art dealer turned American agent just survives his peril-fanged mission to Greece.
Michael Bar-Zohar's The Spy Who Died Twice hurls Jeff Saunders, CIA, into an international nightmare until Jeff's study of evidence reveals answers as unexpected as they are satisfactory.
Even if space permitted, it would be cumbersome to recall all the good paperbacks. But my own favorites deserve mention.
You'll enjoy Emma Lathen's Murder Against the Grain, Brian Garfield's The Threepersons Hunt, Lionel White's The Mexico Run, Desmond Bagley's The Tightrope Men, Bill Pronzini's Snow-bound, Graham Greene's The Confidential Agent, and A Prayer for the Dying or Night Judgment at Sinos, both by Jack Higgins.
Preoccupied, I have almost neglected two new books, further prize items: Ellery Queen's Aces of Mystery, his latest anthology, and Antonia Fraser's King James VI of Scotland and I of England, a life of that royal grotesque innocently concerned with so much crime. Yes, a very successful year.