## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

With copy soon due at the printer’s, once more your obedient servant sits down at the typewriter in a mood of unusual benevolence. And why not? Could Scrooge himself have resisted any month which brought him two unusual detective stories, one galloping mystery of the turf, and one espionage-type thriller with fireworks all the way? Wouldn’t he have sent Bob Cratchit a turkey in summer as well as at Christmas? Indeed, your correspondent feels less like Scrooge than like Bob Cratchit or even (Dickens’s) Tiny Tim. A thousand pardons; it won’t happen too often.

Did I say unusual detective stories? Even so. There may be those who argue that Cop Out, by Ellery Queen (World, $4.95) is not a detective story at all. If they say this, however, they will mean only that for his fortieth anniversary Ellery Queen, the author, has not been content merely to give us the mixture as before.

Though Ellery as a character is absent from this one, which at first glance may seem like Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark, you will find detection in plenty after two visiting hoods, brutal Hinch and the vicious, repulsive Furia, together with Goldie, Furia’s girl, heist a factory payroll and shoot down its branch manager in the town of New Bradford. With the news broadcast and the heat on to prevent immediate getaway, the hoods find themselves pitted against Wes Malone, an honest cop in whose hands they leave the payroll, abducting his small daughter as insurance for his good behavior.

Thenceforward, throughout the sensational battle between the hoods and our honest cop, you will find more than one twist of mystery; you will also find suspense in the best meaning of that overused, often misunderstood word. There has been no finer feat of storytelling even from Ellery Queen.

In Picture of Guilt, by Michael Innes (Dodd, Mead, $3.95), those who have followed the career of Sir John Appleby—he began, thirty odd years ago, as plain Inspector Appleby of Scotland Yard—can watch the now-retired Police Commissioner at his suave, devious best. There is no murder mystery to be solved, in itself a striking circumstance. But certain art masterpieces (mainly paintings, though they include one highly
