indecorous statue) have been disappearing in a whole series of striking thefts or frauds against those moneyed eccentrics with whom England, in fact as well as fiction, still abounds.

Who has been doing all this? We know, of course, it must be some character we have met face to face, but which one? So persuasively does Mr. Innes pile incident on incident, with skill, picturesqueness, a touch of the raffish, that he holds us hyonotized until violence at last explodes on the river at Oxford. Finally, though the clues are there, be very careful. One of them is almost too plain to be seen.

At the beginning of Forfeit, by Dick Francis (Harper & Row, $4.95), a drunken sportswriter falls to death in Fleet Street. Before it has ended with the running of the classic steeplechase called the Lamplighter Gold Cup, James Tyrone, racing correspondent for a sensational London news-paper, has endured as much as he or the reader can bear on the track of some gigantic swindle which threatens the whole turf as well as threatening both his invalid wife and his anything but invalid Afro-English mistress.

The author, himself formerly a champion jockey who almost won the Grand National, has the knack of being both sensational and plausible. He makes us believe what he tells; he makes us sympathize with the right people; he shows, after all the uproar, that there need be no essential conflict between wife and mistress. A writer who can prove that could prove anything, but then Mr. Francis is as gifted a writer as he must remain a gifted horseman. From this corner loud cheers.

Whether or not you have yet met Modesty Blaise, another British secret agent and the female James Bond, she is at full stretch every which way in Peter O'Donnell's A Taste for Death (Doubleday, $4.95). A beautiful sex-bomb with much amorous skill, Modesty also excels at any form of combat armed and unarmed, whether she takes out the American torpedo lying in wait with his sub-machinegun or is matched against an Austrian master swordsman for their murderous fencing bout in the Sahara Desert.

In this romp—well, the publishers call it a romp—Modesty and her partner but not boyfriend, knife-wielding Willie Garvin, do battle with a pair of horrendous villains directed by a still more horrendous villain in the background. Though we meet no espionage here, tactics and atmosphere are so like those of the spy thriller that it belongs in this category. In conclusion, then, a prejudice: if I can't have a spectacular fair-play murder mystery with a thunderbolt surprise ending, give me the wildest cloak-and-dagger saga and I am happy. Judo-throwing or no, if you travel with Modesty I think you will be happy too.
