descent, he signed himself A. Sarsfield Ward. Later, having combined two Saxon words for his inspired *nom de plume*, he grew so accustomed to the name of Sax Rohmer that both he and Elizabeth, his wife, could forget it was not his own.

Bohemian, easy-going, he was a sound “beer and cheese” man with a taste for Jamaica rum. In the biography we follow him through early struggles to solvency, then success, golden rewards, a popularity even greater in America than at home. One American friend, Harry Houdini, showed him the only escape from a plot dilemma which threatened story catastrophe; the story was already appearing serially in *Collier’s Magazine*.

Sax Rohmer touched many fields of mystery. With *Bat-Wing*, as early as 1921, he came very near straight detection. But he will remain best known as the creator of feline, high-shouldered Dr. Fu-Manchu, “with a brow like Shakespeare and a face like Satan,” lord of all poisons, “the Yellow Peril incarnate in one man.”

Most readers in my own generation discovered this polished hobgoblin soon after World War I. Of thirteen Fu-Manchu novels in all, three had been published before the war’s end. Though afterwards he suffered changes of aim or fortune, here the great scorpion towered at his best. Sheer hypnosis held us as Nayland Smith and Dr. Petrie, firing more shots than the gun-slingers of a Western film, stormed into yet another den of iniquity.

Those first three books, *The Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu*, *The Return of Dr. Fu-Manchu*, and *The Hand of Fu-Manchu* are now Pyramid paperbacks modestly priced at 60¢.

You will no longer be hypnotized. But, ignoring any quality of the naive, you will find much ingenuity and some little excitement. If Nayland Smith sounds hysterical, if Fu-Manchu himself seems concerned less with efficient slaughter than with picturesque effect, please remember that this is the world before 1914—a lost world, an ordered world as yet unshaken by war, doubt, or even Freudian leer.

Today, at times, we travel down Nostalgia Road to the pleasant place where old enemies foregather without strife: the gaunt Burmese Commissioner, Dr. Petrie with his beautiful slave-girl, Fu-Manchu resplendent in every robe. Let no carper object or condemn; they all dwell in Arcadia.