the slippery sort of master criminal they meet in fiction not realizing they've found him until that last deadly confrontation at the bank. Mr. McPain, though displaying all the clues, can land a surprise: haymaker with nearly every book. I am happy to report he almost knocked me cold.
Simon Algive, former bomb disposal officer of the Royal Navy and of The Wave Hangs Dark, by Alan Dipper (Morrow, $4.95), joins his old service pal to dive for hidden treasure aboard a bomb-laden cargo boat sunk in the Thames Estuary during World War II. The treasure is there, as well as bombs still untriggered. With ruthless opponents trying to anticipate them, with doubts of their own leader, mysterious Herr Garroloin, with potentially the most dangerous bomb a sex-bomb named Elise, our adventurers get so many shocks that they expect only the unexpected. That goes for the reader too. Alan Dipper, though new to mystery-adventure, has set off a high explosive charge at his first try.
Since my favorite secret agent is sardonic Matt Helm, as good a fellow off duty as seasoned professional killer on duty, I followed him with great pleasure through The Interlopers, by Donald Hamilton (Fawcett, 75¢), twelfth of these excellent paperback originals in the cloak-and-dagger line. On previous missions Matt has battled Soviet agents all over the American southwest, using gun or knife when needful, with a tolerant boss to clean up corpses afterwards. On this occasion Red interlopers, two different kinds of enemy, trail him all over the northwest, across Canada into the forty-ninth state. Disguised as sporting fisherman with dog, he must take out the Kremlin's top killer and forestall the assassination of whomever may be elected president. Not surprisingly, three attractive women haunt his path; but, surprisingly, one of them is honest. Forget the grotesque Matt Helm they have put into films. The real Matt Helm, whom you meet here, is the best in the business.
Another engaging series character, Dr. Jason Love, again flies high in James Leasor's Passport for a Pilgrim, (Doubleday, $4.95). Though only a hard-working British g.p., Dr. Love found his destiny several books ago. He can't take the most innocent trip abroad without walking straight into some espionage plot which inspires him to behave as no country doctor should. Visiting Damascus for a medical convention, Dr. Love breaks into a hospital, rescues a girl who's supposed to be dead, and kites off with her towards the literally blazing finale at a Moslem monastery. He is always hoping his patients at home won't hear of such unseemly goings-on. But irreverent readers, including your obedient servant, can never be sufficiently thankful.
53