## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

This column is written by one who loves mystery stories, in the hope and belief that you share the same fondness. Often, however, we encounter readers who in their hearts can't really like mysteries at all, no matter how many they may read. To praise a given story, for instance, they will cry with glee that the mystery is its least important part. They then wax ecstatic about depth of characterization, power of writing, and other qualities wholly admirable but of secondary importance to a strong plot. Such readers are best served by the kind of mystery writer, would be highbrow, who can't much be bothered with plotting. And this genius exhibits great resentment when mystery lovers call for a mystery.

“Though you've ordered ham and eggs,” he barks angrily, “I offer you a very superior dish of truffes italiennes au beurre. Why the hell can't you eat that and be content?”

Well, we are not content. Ham and eggs may be plebrian, indigestible, unworthy of a gourmet's palate; aesthetic souls forever tell us so. But it's ham and eggs we want, and this humble fare can be so well prepared that a man of healthy appetite will prefer it to the fanciest kick-shaw on the menu.

—Let's drop our culinary metapher. For about six weeks I have waded through so many inept romances masquerading as mysteries—they think they can get away with anything if they call the result ‘suspense’—that it has taken longer than usual to find four recommended titles. And too much space has been devoted to gripping; the four titles can't be treated as fully as they deserve. Nevertheless, here they are: one top-notch de-tective novel, one hypnotic mystery-adventure, two spy thrillers of the true vintage. Curtain up!

In Shotgun, by Ed McBain (Doubleday, $4.95), a reliable old pro shows how it's done. When the prosperous tractor salesman and his wife are messily blasted with a shorgun, after the knifing of one harmless victim whom nobody should have touched, reliable old friends—Steve Carella, Bert Kling, Meyer Meyer of the 87th Precinct—tackle dirty work far more intricate and tricky than it seems, with neat, legitimate misdirection at every turn. The boys of the 87th sometimes yearn for
