THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

This time I was almost cornered, or thought I should probably be comered at the last moment, and feared I might have to fob you off with excuses or gobbledegook. Until nearly deadline only one choice item had appeared out of the blue. Though this has happened before, and it might have seemed simple to support the single new title with three first-class old ones, offhand I could think either of no choice old items or of none that would readily be available if you tried to find them.

Then, of sudden, they all hove in sight at once.

Now, in the corral after the roundup, with satisfaction I can point you out three brilliant detective novels—two new, one the hardcover reprint of a beauty from two decades gone by—but each of classic pattern and strict fair play. These three novels will be backed up with a well-chosen anthology of the best mystery and suspense stage—plays for forty-odd years. Let’s consider.

At the beginning you may think that Remote Control, by Harry Carmichael (McCall, $4.50), is unlikely to prove a classic detective novel. Despite all the emotion, which begins swirling at once in a Fleet Street pub and has not yet reached its thickest even when country tragedy intervenes, the author’s approach seems almost too casual, even too careless or unbuttoned, to fit in with any classic pattern.

If you think that, you will wake up with a bump. It is the most legitimate of dirty work; every move has been craftily done to deceive. When Hugh Melville is sent to prison for running down his neighbor in that fatal accident, Mrs. Melville apparently kills herself. What is the reason for this seeming suicide, with its equally curious circumstances? With our detectives Quinn, Morning Post, Inspector Byram, Buckinghamshire C.I.D., and John Piper, Insurance Investigator, we follow not only the tragic Melvilles, but tragic and attractive Judith King, embittered widow of the accident victim. Past a nightmare, through emotion or excitement at their thickest, we emerge at last into a solution as daring as it is © 1971 by John Dickson Carr.

73

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED