THE JURY BOX 113

A Trout in the Milk, by Michael Underwood (Walker, $5.95), has as background the City of London, that narrow area of London Town itself, and in particular the ancient legal haunt of the Temple.

Eminent Barrister James Geddy has begun the Old Bailey defense of Frank Manion, notorious wrong 'un as yet unconvinced, when a harmless young law student is messily stabbed to death for no apparent reason whatever. Though crime-hardened wrong 'un and innocent student are total strangers, their cases seem strangely related as circumstantial evidence gathers round both.

“Some circumstantial evidence is very strong,” said Thoreau, “as when you find a trout in the milk.” Hence our title; hence the problem attacked by Detective Chief Superintendent Roffey, City Police. The author, Department of Public Prosecutions, portrays every aspect of a barrister’s life: upstairs, downstairs, in and out of chambers. If at times the legal gentry are more compelling than the story, Mr. Underwood points his surprise finish with a clue so obvious that it may slip past unnoticed. Take care!

Despite its mock-whimsical title, which may be disregarded, in Peter Lovesey’s Abracadaver (Dodd, Mead, $4.95), an authority Victorian background again vividly recreates London ninety years ago, with dirty work amid the boozy, brawling uproar of the music hall. What has seemed no more than a plague of brutal jokes freezes suddenly into deliberate murder, providing headaches for doughty Sergeant Cribb of the old, original Scotland Yard.

It’s a tangled business, both evil and intricate. Every police move seems frustrated by almost superhuman cunning until Cribb’s trap nails the murderer and ends a hunt as spectacular as it has been fairly marked with clues. Very much Grade A.

Unless you are overprejudiced against the briefer form, don’t miss Best Max Carrados Detective Stories, by Ernest Bramah, selected and introduced by E. F. Bleiler (Dover, $3.00). Winnowed from three all-but-forgotten volumes into durable paperback, here are nine tales of Max Carrados, blind but all-seeing contemporary of Sherlock Holmes.

Though there have been other blind detectives—Damon Gaunt, Thornley Colton, today’s Duncan Maclain—you will find Carrados impressive as he solves neat, fascinating mysteries which never outrage belief. We may flatter ourselves that we have grown too sophisticated, but we are not yet too sophisticated for the late Ernest Bramah.