THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Let there be no iron rule; let the approach vary as seems best. This month, with your permission, I would pay belated tribute to that English writer who, though a master of mystery, has left behind him (so far as this country is concerned, at least) no work now available in paperback. If I must send you to second-hand bookshops in search of some novel he wrote, almost any novel he wrote, that’s better than letting you miss them. Probably you won’t mind; being devoted to blood and thunder, you may even relish the search.

Anthony Berkeley Cox, born 1893, died in December of 1970. So far forgot may be auld acquaintance that I did not learn of his passing until fifteen months later. Therefore this appreciation must contain not only tribute but apology.

Tony, as we called him, founded the London Detection Club. Misled by some confusion whose source can’t be traced, several sound critics have stated that he founded it in 1928. Though he may have conceived the idea in that year, the club was not actually organized until 1932. This fact appeared in the brochure they once distributed to new members, together with Tony’s official title of First Freeman.

“Now what,” friends often asked, “does First Freeman mean?” Once, to avert a threatened rumpus, Peacemaker John Rhode swore it meant the right to attend all committee meetings and vote at them. Anyway, that’s what Tony always did; his title had to mean something. But, since other charter members had been R. Austin Freeman and Freeman Wills Crofts, a simpler explanation may be found in his own impassioned avowal.

“With Freemans to the right, Freemans to the left, Freemans on every side,” he had declared, “the founder of this club is damn well going to be First Freeman, and don’t you forget it!”

Lucky fellow, Tony. Of well-to-do family, with an independent income, he had no need to struggle in the marketplace. Turning to detective stories because he so much enjoyed them, in 1924 he

© 1972 by John Dickson Carr.

87