wrote *The Layton Court Mystery* as Anthony Berkeley.

Then came a distinguished series, his sleuths Roger Sheringham and milquetoast Ambrose Chitterwick: each novel of dazzling ingenuity, each with a twist or double-twist to yank the rug from under us at the end. As the world’s best practitioner Anthony Berkeley (Great Britain) shared equal honors, as he still shares them, with the editor-in-chief of this magazine (U.S.A.).

As early as '31 he had opened a new door. In *Malice Aforethought*, calling himself Francis Iles, he studied the mind of a homicidal country doctor. "Murder without mystery," his publisher rather triumphantly cried. With *Before the Fact*, which followed, we met a young man of such charm and callousness as to be the death of any person who got in Johnnie Aysgarth's way.

Among aesthetics, who shudder at detective fiction, it has become the fashion to praise these “psychological” studies for superior characterization, and to exalt Francis Iles as though Anthony Berkeley had never existed. The true reason they say this lies deeper. Having no ingenuity of their own, they resent ingenuity in others and bitterly decry it as they decry the element of surprise.

Much though I admire Tony’s work as Iles, give me Berkeley every time! Give me murder with mystery, characters no less vivid for wearing masks; give me the sensational case, the fair but cryptic evidence building towards some thunderbolt disclosure.

Certain Berkeley books you must read. Find *Trial and Error*, that ironic tragi-comedy. Find *The Poisoned Chocolates Case*, multiple solutions in one. Find *The Piccadilly Murder* (how to commit your crime in public); find *The Silk Stocking Murders* (mad strangler of women); find *Dead Mrs. Stratton* or my own particular favorite, *Top-Storey Murder*.

Those nineteen thirties were the Detection Club’s golden years. Tony, its First Freeman, remained a moving spirit. Then, with abrupt effect, the storyteller shut up shop.

Following *As for the Woman* ... in September '39, both Iles and Berkeley fell silent. He wrote that last book, Tony told me long afterwards, under a severe emotional strain; appearing as war was declared, the book fell flat. It had finished him, he insisted, and couldn’t be persuaded otherwise.

A great pity, though. Some of us mystery mongers, continuing to ply our trade, merely grow old. Tony, who downed tools too soon, deserves to become immortal.