66
THE JURY BOX

available in paperback, that I felt compelled to cite a classic study published at full price. Chesterton's The Father Brown Omnibus For the rest, choice titles new and old were all over the place.

The editor-in-chief, ever-reliable Ellery Queen, weighed in with a Fine and Private Place, domestically murderous from the marriage proposal to the shock of the last confrontation. (By the way, he also edited three anthologies.) Emma Lathen also reliably provided a brace of adventures. Pick Up Sticks and Ashes. Ashes, for John Putnam Thatcher of the Sloan Guaranty Tru. From established writers, hardcover and paperback too, depend Dick Francis's Rat Race, Sara Woods's Let's Choose Executors Hugh Pentecost's The Deadly Joke, Hillary Waugh's '3 Manhattan East' Edmund Crispin's Frequent Hearses, Phil Macdonald's Murder Gone Mad. Among newcomers, comparative newcomers, salute Harry Carmichael (Remo Control), Ruth Rendell (A Guilty Thing Surprised), Catherin Aird (A Late Phoenix), John and Emory Bonett (The Sound Murder).

Espionage? Beginning as far back as John Buchan's classic World War I, The 39 Steps, we soon roar up to date with T' Poisoners by Donald Hamilton, Assignment—Tokyo by Edward Aarons, The Twisted Wire by Richard Falkirk, Place of Mists Robert McLeod. Ranging over all the earth for its betrayals, here cloak-and-dagger slipperiness of the true stab or vintage; don't mi any title.

This year I have even ventured to review criticism, wit deserved praise for The Mystery Writer's Art by Francis M. Nevin and A Catalogue of Crime by Jacques Barzun and Wendell Hert Taylor. But such remarks stray from the point, to which we must return.

Rounding out our three categories of sensationalism wit mystery-adventure, then, let me give you four mystery-adventure as strong as the detective stories or the espionage. From Victä Canning's The Great Affair and Jack Higgins's Night Adventure a Sinos to Robert L. Fish's The Green Hell Treasure and Wh Masterson's The Gravy Train they are loaded with high explosives. The two last-named, presenting every clue, might well be called detection; and, though a critic dare pronounce nothing best, enjoyed The Gravy Train more than any novel I have read this year.

Is it a good omen for the future? Deo volente, let's hope so!

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED