72
THE JURY BOX

But that’s not all. What might have seemed a routine murder case for Lieutenant Frank Hastings unfolds arms of conspiracy like octopus tentacles to seize and crush. Our cop himself barely escapes. The clues accumulate, the scale-pans dip, and, as Hastings invades that Victorian house, the whole grisly pattern emerges in a bullet-torn climax you will not soon forget. Well plotted, well written, well recommended.

And now for espionage. Assignment—Amazon Queen, by Edward S. Aarons (Fawcett, 95¢), finds redoubtable Secret Agent Sam Durell, pride of the C.I.A., once more launched like a guided missile at the Bad Guys’ newest threat.

World-wide in menace, some unknown genius has invented a device by which all life can be wiped out at any chosen place. And this Doomsday weapon is for sale. Several nations—including America, Russia, Mainland China—have been summoned to bid against each other at a rendezvous up the Amazon in the Brazilian jungle. Cajun Durell, heading a small American team, has been ordered to buy Doomsday’s device; buy it or destroy it.

Plagued by attack from outside and treachery from inside, Sam’s team batters into enemies all the way. On the river Sam himself finds echoes and memories: the drunken steamboat captain from his boyhood, as well as beautiful African Princess Salduva and her brother. Amid colorful characters we watch jungle violence blaze at that wild auction in another fine adventure for the Cajun and another triumph of storytelling for his creator.

Matt Helm, narrator and protagonist of Donald Hamilton’s The Intimidators (Fawcett, $1.25), is also a favorite secret agent of the true lethal breed. In the Bahamas on his fifteenth mission for Washington, Matt faces a double task. He must liquidate Pavel Minsky, top Soviet agent on the prowl. He must learn what befell the bride-to-be of Texas Oil Tycoon Bill Haseltine; with her family, on her father’s yacht, she has vanished from human ken.

Does danger really threaten a harmless girl like Lacey Rockwell, oceanographer from Maine? And others besides Haseltine’s fiancée, including one British newspaper magnate, have vanished from a certain ocean stretch called the Bermuda Triangle or the Sea of Missing Ships.

Our hero, a kind of assassin-philosopher, speculates on the part played by intimidation in everybody’s life as by land and waterway he nears wicked truth. Despite the leisurely start, it’s a vintage adventure; Matt Helm never lets us down.
