70 THE JURY BOX

Summoned to Hawaii by a frantic phone-call, McGee finds Pidge dithering after inexplicable, haunted occurrences with her new husband aboard their own boat. Well-meaning Howie Brindle can't possibly want to murder her, and yet what's some explanation for the inexplicable?

In recent books the author has abandoned detection for near-mystery-adventure in which hypnotic narrative skill keeps us on edge even when most perplexities have been resolved. Mr. MacDonald has never done better than this financial and emotional whirlwind, from opening challenge to sensational climax and wry, ironic epilogue. Since every character takes on the flesh and blood of life, you're always safe with Travis McGee.

Provided with a new face by plastic surgery after ambush in Vietnam, Captain David Garrison, the very sympathetic hero of Walter Wagner's Swap (Pocket Books, $1.25), embarks for Russia on a secret mission as danger-fanged as any jungle foray.

Implacably the Soviets hold fourteen-year-old Sonya Brodsky, only Russian survivor of the millionaire American Brodskys, and won't release her at any price; Garrison must slip past the iron curtain to effect a rescue. In Moscow, where Sonya disappears and can't be found, the iron curtain has become a stone wall.

But Garrison, himself expert at ambush, conceives his plan as our scene shifts from Moscow to Paris for an International Arms Conference. Assisted by two Green Beret sergeants and an Israeli secret agent, he kidnaps the important Soviet delegate he will exchange for one helpless child.

At breakneck-paced action amid flying bullets, with beautiful Elizabeth Clement standing by, snatch and exchange are accomplished despite deadly intrusion by the red Chinese. Frustrating a Soviet counter-move to kill everybody rather than yield any point at all, Garrison rescues young Sonya and emerges triumphant in the best cloak-and-dagger thriller of recent years.

The Further Rivals of Sherlock Holmes, edited by Sir Hugh Greene (Pantheon, $6.95), comprises Sir Hugh's third and, he tells us, likely his last collection of tales from 1891 to 1914, when Baker Street dominated all. Though the supply has now run short, here are thirteen flashes of sound investigation or ingenious plot from lesser sleuths than Sherlock and lesser craftsmen than Doyle.

Try M. McD. Bodkin's "Murder by Proxy." Dip in anywhere; you will find this book true stimulus when time hangs heavy and television commercials can no longer be endured.