THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Following last month’s disappointment, when luck provided no worthy new title, it is a relief that for February I can offer four. If one of these is a collection of tales from days gone by, and another the paperback reprint of an espionage thriller two years old, each acquires glittering newness in its present form. From detection to mystery-adventure and from espionage to short stabs of dirty work, then, our course runs thus:

The Thirteenth Trick, by Russell Braddon (Norton, $4.95), snares us at once into emotion as well as classic detection. Either straightforward-seeming Mark Gifford or sardonic Robert Gifford, his bitter and crippled ex-athlete brother, must be the “Motorways Maniac” who has been killing fair-haired young girls near Aylesbury in rural England.

Mark, a P. & O. ship’s officer on leave, is visiting Robert’s cottage when police find the body of the fourth murder victim in the back row of a cinema at Aylesbury. The wordy card game between Mark and Robbie, those two clever fellows, is joined by Detective Superintendent Cheadle, as clever as either but more patient than both. Even with so narrow a field of suspects, by adroit juggler the author keeps tension at fever pitch until the game’s last trick is won after near-fatal archery at tea-time.

Years ago, in Cards on the Table, Dame Agatha Christie spun one of her best stories round just four suspects. Mr. Braddon shows equal virtuosity with only two. And all the clues are there.

With The Turquoise Lament, by John D. MacDonald (Lippincott, $6.95), the first Travis McGee adventure to appear originally in hardcover finds Trav involved even more than usual with a fetching female who has appealed for help.

Linda “Pidge” Lewellen, now married to big, good-natured Howie Brindle, is the daughter of Trav’s late friend, Professor Ted Lewellen, who has left his daughter a fortune derived from marine salvage but apparently has not left her the key to further marine salvage worth millions more.

© 1973 by John Dickson Carr.
69