THE JURY BOX
77
"30" Manhattan East, by Hillary Waugh (Belmont, 95f), provides a notable problem for the officers at Manhattan's Homicide North and in particular for Detective Frank Sessions: young, intelligent, all too human.
The cops can't believe Monica Glazzard, that influential gossip columnist, would have taken her own life; any reader, of course, will have discounted suicide at once. But, if she didn't die of barbiturates, how did she die and by whose hand?
Mr. Waugh has been praised justly for his credible characters and realistic background. He should receive praise equally high for sheer ingenuity and skill. I confess with pleasure that in this one the author defeated me; though I anticipated his fine double-twist solution, we had almost reached disclosure before I saw it.
The protagonist of Victor Canning's *The Great Affair* (Morrow, $6.95) is so sympathetic and engaging that we should follow him in fascination even apart from the sensational adventures of this chronicle. Formerly an Anglican clergyman, Charles Nelo Sangster has been unfrocked and jailed though he has acted from the best, most charitable motives.
Emerging from clink, he must first commit burglary to recover jewels which are his own property. Then, accompanied by shapely Sarah, he sets forth dangerously on yet another errand of charity. Humor, thrill, surprise animate their mystery-adventure odyssey towards war and riot in far places. The Great Affair is just that, with one of our best storytellers at the very top of his form.
If it's espionage you want, you can't go wrong with Edward S. Aarons' Assignment—Tokyo (Fawcett, 75f), the newest paperback adventure of C.I.A. Agent Sam Durell. By mere accident some nation—Russia, Red China, perhaps America itself—has loosed deadly plague germs in a Japanese fishing village. One girl, Yoko Kamuru, survives but disappears. She must be found at once, so that medicine may discover some immunizing agent before plague grips the world.
Hounded by the K.G.B. on one side and by Peking's Black House on the other, Sam Durell pursues his quarry. How he succeeds, in fast action amid scenes of vividness and color, is not the least achievement either of the Cajun or of his creator. As always, highly recommended.