THE JURY BOX
I knew the lady well. We met in '36, when she sponsored me for the Detection Club, and remained good friends at the time of her death more than twenty years later. On seeing an expanse of damp sand, she once wrote, the instinct of every right-thinking person is to rush out and make footprints all over it. She left her own footprints in the realm of mystery; they are not footprints on sand. Dorothy Leigh Sayers, hail and farewell.
As high praise for Murder Most Foul, edited by Harold Q. Masur (Walker, $5.95), no more need be said than that the 1971 Mystery Writers of America anthology fully lives up to the standard set by its predecessors. Mr. Masur, himself one of our best bafflers, has selected with an unerring eye.
Fifteen tales from various hands explore every alley of homicide enacted or envisaged. Whether in alphabetical listing the author's name occurs as early as Bloch or as late as Waugh, each is at the top of his form. You will find Ellery Queen's best short story, "Mind Over Matter," as well as "Selena Robs the White House," a fine study in diabolism by Patricia McGerr. The reader can't go wrong amid so many connoisseurs, who wish him a pleasant nightmare.
If on its first appearance you missed The A.B.C. Murders, by Agatha Christie (Pocket Books, 95¢), don't miss it as one of ten Christie novels now available in paperback.
Many critics call this book Dame Agatha's masterpiece. Certain jeering letters to Hercule Poirot seem as inexplicable as those strangely assorted victims, each with an A.B.C. railway guide on or near the body. But don't underestimate Poirot. Despite confusion, panic, or the antics of an apparent maniac, the whole design seems simple when you learn its secret; and that, after all, is the essence of a good detective story.
With Ian Fleming's Diamonds Are Forever (Bantam, 95¢), James Bond adventure originally published before Agent J.O.T. achieved worldwide renown, we find Bond here involved in no coil of espionage, but in a diamond-stealing racket allied with other rackets no less deadly.
After the slaying of a scorpion in West Africa, its action whips to London, to New York, in a blaze of violence from Saratoga to Las Vegas, then back to Africa and the slaying of the last scorpion as the flaming helicopter falls. The narrative is hypnotic, the American dialogue authentic American. Pay no attention to scoffers; trust the ever-reliable firm of Fleming and Bond