THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARE

As I prepare this November column at the beginning of August, the pressure of heat outside an air-conditioned study seems to invalidate any suggestion that 1970 can be nearing its close. And yet such is the case. When I became EQMM’s critic almost two years ago, more than one friend prophesied doom.

“You’ll be a target,” I was warned, “for half the letter-writing cranks in this country. They’ll bawl you out, scream at you, tell you your judgments are crazy or crooked or both.”

Well, that prophecy failed to materialize. On the contrary, all letters here received have been literate, intelligent, and perceptive; they were much appreciated. But it does bring to mind a long-past incident not without overtones of comedy.

The most explosive book-reviewing uproar of my experience occurred in London towards the end of the nineteen thirties, and involved a left-wing sage who each week pontificated for the Evening Standard. Though it’s to be hoped that since then he has been eaten by bears, like those children who mocked the prophet, yet the man may still be alive; not to rouse old wars, let’s give him the pseudonym of Richmond Fall.

Trouble began with his notice of a detective novel, Hercule Poirot’s Christmas, by Agatha Christie. Not content merely with damning Hercule Poirot’s Christmas, the pundit disclosed (1) the identity of the murderer, (2) the murderer’s motive, (3) nearly every detail of the trick by which the crime had been committed, (4) how the detective knew it.

Repercussions soon followed. The next day, foaming with rage, Anthony Berkeley phoned me to ask questions. Had I seen this outrage in the Standard? As honorary secretary of the Detection Club, would I take it lying down? Write to the newspaper; answer that so and so at once!

It was done. In restrained terms I pointed out that, while a critic must say what he likes about the merits of any book, it’s not quite the clean potato carefully to give away secrets on whose effect its author so much depends.

126

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED