THE JURY BOX 127

My protest triggered a real blast from Richmond Fall. Our pundit, thoroughly roused, dealt with the challenge by ignoring it and attacking long another line. Though he knew the rules, he said, this trash called elective fiction was a nuisance, a bore, an affront to readers’ in-ligence; he’d do anything to swat such rubbish.

Your correspondent could retire; others entered the fray for what became an enbittered slanging-match between those who liked detective action and those who hated it. Despite a timely contribution from Dorothy Sayers, reminding everybody that the point at issue was not a worth of mysteries but how they should be reviewed, most combants on both sides also forgot the point.

After all, there is a historic parallel. That row suggests the occasion, a eighteenth-century literary event afterwards described by Sir Walter Cott, when Dr. Samuel Johnson met the Scottish economist, Adam mith. Dr. Johnson called Adam Smith a liar; Adam Smith called Dr. Johnson a son of a bitch. This, so far as we know, was the only record-d exchange between the great lexicographer and the author of The Health of Nations.

Descending to no opprobrious epithets, scattering flowers all the way, can report on four straight detective stories, alternately British and american, each of sound construction and entire fair play. The first tree are new; the fourth, published a few years ago, has now reap-eared in paperback.

In Wobble to Death, by Peter Lovesey (Dodd, Mead, $4.50), the ggy gaslight of 1879 illuminates one of those brutal Victorian sporting vents, the six-day indoor walking race or ‘wobble,’ in which athletes chieved miracles of distance and punishment, even though they trained on booze. It also illuminates murder. At Islington Agricultural Hall a lozen hopefuls take the field, led by the gentleman champion, Captain Chadwick, and his not so gentlemanly rival, Charlie Darrell. One constant falls dead of poison on the second day; there will be another victim as the cruel pace goes on.

Here are true Victorians, not pious frauds of legend: Herriott and acobson, respectively promoter and manager; Mostyn-Smith, that trange-looking amateur of medicine; Monk, Charlie Darrell’s trainer; Zora, Charlie’s seductive wife. Sound investigation by Sergeant Cribb sounds out a first-rate story of sustained thrill.

In the Death of a Man, by Lesley Egan (Harper & Row, $4.95), officers much confusion to Jesse Falkenstein, the lawyer who says he won’t touch criminal cases, to Sergeant Andrew Clock of Los Angeles Homide, and to fat old Edgar Walters, that perceptive armchair slcuth.

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED