128
THE JURY BOX

Lynette Lester, daughter of millionaire, rough-diamond Pat Gann and friend of Falkenstcin's sister, has consulted the lawyer about hmarital troubles with enigmatic Glen Lester. Trouble deepens wh. Lyettc's husband is found shot to death, apparently outside her o men's office building. Who killed Glen Lester is not the most diffic problem three investigators have to solve. They must trace somebo backwards along a very twisted trail; and, as usual in novels whe several 'unrelated' cases flicker in the background, one unrelated ca will bear watching.

There are times when Miss Egan can be as ingeniously sncaky Agatha Christie herself. With the text of her teletype message she sli in a central clue almost unnoticed. That's the stuff: good hunting all th way to a wry, ironic cnd.

Some may object to Douglas Clark's Deadly Pattern (Stcin & Da $4.95) as being beef-and-ale British detection of the stodgily familiar sort. You may n.t quite believe in the decaying East Coast town wh its five buried corpses. You may net be over-fond of Chief Inspect: Masters or grumpy Inspector Green.

But it's honest detection, for which we should be grateful. Its mosa of evidence has been made as intricate as complete. And the capture a monomaniac killer resolves every doubt.

Last on our list, though far from last in order of merit, we have A. counting for Murder, by Emma Lathen (Avon, 95¢), an early effo of perhaps the most distinguished talent to appear since 1960. Featu ing Panker-Detective John Putnam Thatcher, senior vice-president a New York's Sloan Guaranty Trust, Miss Lathen has given us another a those ingenious exercises in crime-cum-big business which are real exercises in crime-cum-human nature. That something must be very wrong at the firm called National Calculating raises hell on Wall Street even before an accountant probing their affairs is strangled with th cord of his own adding-machine. It makes us look steadily in the wrong direction.

Apart from all her skill at plotting, the author's great skill lies in h. ability to find real people inside official masks and stuffed shirts. The bankers, these company directors, these whiz kids of high finance —they're not godlike souls, praise be; they're as human as you and

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED