THE JURY BOX

by JOHN DICKSON CARR

“Since you choose to ignore poor work rather than condemn it by name,” writes a Florida correspondent, “why not define the sort of story which so often makes any mystery-critic’s life a nightmare? At least it would relieve some grips or frustrations, and have definite therapeutic value.”

The kind of story, sir, is easy to define. It’s that kind in which the heroine can’t make up her mind whether or not her brand new husband is a murderer; nobody else cares. Dozens of female authors still go on rewriting Jane Eyre or The Mysteries of Udolpho, with bits of one spilling over into the other, and not one new idea in sight.

Though I am unconvinced that gripping has therapeutic value, there is one consolation; this stuff lies beyond our province.

This month I offer two admirable detective novels; the first new, the second a paperback reprint modestly priced. Also recommended are one hell-roaring spy story and one cops-and-robbers caper; the first likewise new, the second likewise a reprint. Though as a rule we begin with detection and go on to cloak-and-dagger, let’s reverse the order here.

From a young Israeli writer of conspicuous talent, The Third Truth, by Michael Bar-Zohar (Houghton Mifflin, $5.95), deals with espionage at its most dangerous when the Soviet Foreign Minister, visiting New York, is shot dead at the wheel of his car. With other Russian deaths to be explained, American authority must find and nail the culprit before tension explodes in holocaust.

C.I.A. Agent Jeff Saunders, a sound man in disgrace for one past blunder, can redeem himself only by proving the innocence of Yankee capitalism. For the first apparent truth isn’t truth at all. In pursuit of a second truth behind the first, Jeff takes up the trail of three men once condemned to the horror camp at Dachau. Every character, every background rings true. That trail, bloodstained or booby-trapped, leads from the Middle East across half Europe.

© 1973 by John Dickson Carr.
90

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED