THE JURY BOX

The summer doldrums are upon us, drying up most sources. For your entertainment, therefore, I must both begin and end with a time-tested classic: the first a novel featuring our earliest and best scientific detective, the second a book of short stories snake-fanged with clever plots. Between these we shall consider one roaring modern mystery-adventure with espionage overtones, and one modern detective story against so unlikely a background as Finland. Under such circumstances, after all, the doldrums might be worse.

If you are unfamiliar with The Red Thumb Mark, by R. Austin Freeman (Norton, $4.50), try the hardcover reissue. First published in 1907, this little masterpiece marked the debut of Dr. John Evelyn Thorndyke, urbane medico-legal investigator, conjuring up practical wizardry at King's Bench Walk.

When young Reuben Hornby is accused of robbing his uncle's safe, with evidence of a bloody thumbprint incontestably his own, even the young man's solicitor advises him to plead guilty and beg for mercy; only Dr. Thorndyke can conceive a defense.

Some unseen presence has determined to eliminate Thorndyke; the attempts on his life are so devilishly ingenious as to be almost foolproof. But the sage can't be trapped. In open court he smashes the Crown's case, nailing the true culprit as he presides over the romance between worthy Dr. Jervis and charming Juliet Gibson. Any innocent who appeals to John Thorndyke is as safe as though he had appealed to Sherlock Holmes.

As a new item in the fast-paced, shoot-'em-up style of mystery-adventure, let there be praise for The Bearer Plot, by Owen Sela (Pantheon, $5.95). Nicholas Maasten, London anti-hero of several business ventures, has a certain iron honesty even at dirty work. When from a dubious friend he buys rare postage stamps which may or may not have been stolen, he hopes to reap rich profit by selling the stamps to a nobleman in Spain.

Instead Maasten wallops straight into somebody's deadly plot,

© 1973 by John Dickson Carr.

83