84 THE JURY BOX
replete with bearer bonds, gold bars, and a Nazi treasure buried in a lake. Racing across Europe, threat-pursued, he is driven not only by two lovely ladies but by the British cloak-and-dagger bureau which still holds him for blackmail. And behind every machine-pistol lurks that sinister cripple in the wheel-chair.
If Anti-hero Maasten seems hairier and more mod than most readers can approve, he is a good fellow who stands by his friends through any extremity, including a scuba-diving fight in icy water. At the finale he emerges—if not triumphant, at least with profit enough to carry him (let’s hope) through another adventure fully as good as this one.
Mistaken souls who regard the people of Finland as heavy or stodgy, considering Helsinki as anything but Fun City, will find in The Trevick Affair, by Mauri Sariola (Walker, $4.95), a wild detective impasse disrupting the lives of sympathetic human beings whose pulses beat only too fast.
To Osmo Kilpi, idealistic young lawyer, comes the quiet middle-aged couple whom persecution would drive from their modest market garden in the country. Though Arvid Teerisuo and his wife have offended nobody, some unknown enemy burns down their sauna and wrecks their living room with a shotgun. Then murder removes Teerisuo in another fire.
But perplexity deepens when the victim’s wife suddenly blossoms into a swinging widow with a young boy friend. Osmo Kilpi and his shapely secretary, Irja Hartti, are swept into a whirl of death which culminates in sensational disclosure.
In conclusion, good brethren, I give you Jacques Futrelle’s The Thinking Machine. Also belonging to annus mirabilis 1907, it contains seven exploits of Professor Augustus S.F.X. Van Dusen, aided by Reporter Hutchinson Hatch. In “The Problem of Cell 13,” a classic, Professor Van Dusen bets he can escape from the condemned cell of a prison; before winning his bet he all but drives the warden mad. Though the other tales can’t match this chef-d’oeuvre, both “The Scarlet Thread” and “The Flaming Phantom” employ dirty work as unexpected as it is horribly simple.
Jacques Futrelle, despite his Gallic name, was an American newspaperman who fashioned his plots against the staid setting of Boston, Mass., and perished with the Titanic in 1912. The Thinking Machine is not easy to find; but, believe me, it’s worth the search.