THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Your correspondent’s remarks anent the London Detection Club have roused interest and (for me, at least) some embarrassment. One lady, teaching a writing course at a Midwestern college, asks what rules the members swcar to observe in addition to those already quoted. With the best of intentions I have mislaid her letter and can’t answer it. If the lady in question will overlook this seeming discourtesy by sending her name and address, I shall be happy to reply in propria persona.

Meanwhile, let it be said that I have stated the only rules relating to craft or technique. The rest of the oath, though amusing and rather impressive when spoken with resonance, deals with matters social rather than technical. Even so, those existing rules provided hazards. Whatever name might be proposed for membership, it used to seem, somebody would always object on the grounds that the candidate cither (a) didn’t play fair, or (b) couldn’t write good English.

One other factor tended to restrict membership. All of us soon learned the futility of electing anybody who for reasons of geography could attend few meetings or none. Thirty-odd years ago two obviously worthy members would have been Ngaio Marsh and Michael Innes, but neither was proposed because at that time the latter lived in Australia and the former, as she still does, in New Zealand.

Still and all, they were great days! Strong is the memory of how John Rhode and I would escort Dr. Austin Freeman up and down the stairs to the club rooms in Gerrard Street, hoping he wouldn’t die of a heart attack on the way to dinner at Kettner’s.

Codes of rules for constructing detective fiction have been drawn up both by the late Willard Hungington Wright (S. S. Van Dine) and by the late Monsignor Ronald Knox, himself a Detection Club member. Monsignor Knox set forth unanswerably that the crime must never be fastened on any character whose thoughts we have been allowed to share; the creator of Philo Vance said it must never be fastened on any servant. The latter point, though perhaps debatable, has much in its support. No character can be developed

98

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED