as a character when he has little more to say than, “Dinner is served,” or, “The hack’s here.”

But, whatever may be the ultimate rules, I can testify with pleasure that this month’s haul consists of three first-rate detective novels and one mystery-adventure well worth your attention.

Somewhat deceptive is the leisurely beginning of The Best Man to Die, by Ruth Rendell (Crime Club, $4.50). There will be fireworks ere long, erupting all over the domestic atmosphere of Kingsmarkham, Sussex.

Anybody known as “good old Charlie” Somebody, of course, will almost certainly meet a sticky end. Good old Charlie Hatton, after that bachelor party for Jack Pertwee, has met a watery end in the river before many people begin to suspect the truth about him. What of all that money Charlie has been accumulating? What of the mysterious girl who calls herself Nora Fanshawe? And how does the nursing-home really figure in this?

Chief Inspector Wexford, stolid only on the surface, attacks a problem in which everything seems to be upside down and often is. Here we have more than competent detection, told in smooth, vivid, ironic prose. Nothing is more deceptive than its final; the character of the murderer, if you are alert enough to spot his identity, has been developed on-stage and under bright light. And Mrs. Rendell, though married to a public relations consultant, invariably plays fair.

When two well-paid fun girls share a Fun City apartment in Finish Me Off, by Hillary Waugh (Doubleday, $5.95), the murder of Linda Howard, nee Mary Bowman—stabbed to death with one of her clients at the Addison Hotel—draws Detective Frank Sessions into the victim’s murky half-world of pimps, pushers, and prostitutes.

Though Linda Howard really enjoyed this profession, her roommate, Gloria Henchel or Ruth Little, has been laboring only so that she can retire and open a beauty parlor in her native New Haven. Convinced that Gloria must know something, Frank Sessions concentrates on her when every other trail seems to end in a blind alley.

His tenacity earns its reward, if almost too late. The only deception here practised is the legitimate deception used by the criminal against authority. The trapping of this innocent-sceming killer highlights a soundly constructed murder mystery of strong characterizations and convincing background detail.

As with our next author’s other books, Enquiry, by Dick Francis (Harper & Row, $4.95), gives us the very breath of British steeplechase

99

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED