racing, even when we are far away from the track.
Kelly Hughes, steeplechase jockey who has pursued other studies at the London School of Economics, loses his license for “pulling back” a horse which has merely tired and faltered; Dexter Cranfield, the horse’s trainer, suffers the same disgrace. Somebody unknown has framed them both. The trainer, hardly a very likeable sort, is too crushed to move. Unless Kelly’s native wits can find and convict the person responsible for that frame, the future holds no prospect at all.
Colorful characters surround him: Tony, his bibulous cousin; Roberta Cranfield, the trainer’s daughter; a shady private eye named Oakley; hostile Lord Gowery of the Jockey Club; tough-minded but sympathetic Lord Ferth. Kelly’s position grows desperate when the unknown plotter tries to kill him and nearly succeeds. At length the plotter tries to kill him and nearly succeeds. At length the plotter is snared, after a wild scene in which someone other than the plotter goes raving mad; and it ends, to everybody else’s satisfaction, with Kelly comfortably in the arms of a girl he has thought he didn’t like.
Near the beginning of Stanley Ellin’s The Bind (Random House, $5.95) we learn that it may have been an accident when healthy, wealthy Walter Thoren, happily married patriarch with two grown children and a life-insurance policy carrying double indemnity, has died in a car smash that should net his heirs two hundred thousand dollars. Insurance Investigator Jake Dekker doesn’t believe in accident; neither does Guaranty Life. The company will pay Jake heavily if he can prove Thoren engineered his own death to leave his family in clover; if it can’t be proved, they won’t pay Jake a penny.
Landing at Miami Beach with a problem on his mind and a temperamental “wife” on his hands, Jake wades neck-deep through trouble before he can even begin to investigate. Evil forces seem to be closing in on Thoren’s widow, his attractive daughter, and his philandering son. But the greatest enigma has been provided by the late Walter Thoren himself, a human secret on his own. The secrets are disclosed; the evil forces close in; a gory dénouement rounds out this brilliant mystery-adventure at top speed all the way.
100
LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED