Bill Cope's sudden death by 'misadventure' flings Paul into a Scottish manhunt at ever-increasing tempo. And the women he meets seem more inhibited than most anti-heroines, despite that blonde who says she's a call girl. Pursued from the Hebrides, boarding a plane for France, Paul finds answers to the thorny double question: who are the unknown murderers behind this, and who are the unknown agents on Our Side? These answers, as ironic as satisfactory, round out a very satisfactory story.

In Allison Ind's The Sino-Variant (McKay, $5.95) it's cloak-and-dagger work from the start. Cornelius Craig, American scientist and former American secret agent, at first won't be drawn back into old ways, resisting all pressure by Sir Kennett Hardy, Chief of British Army Intelligence. But, when a friend from more spacious times has been trapped by the enemy, he can't resist that.

For all its British background, most of the action is as American as stud poker. And we are among anti-heroines again; Craig's past conduct towards Sandra, Sir Kennett's daughter, no less than his present conduct towards Beth, his alluring housekeeper, might better be called strip poker with most cards wild. The trail of some newly developed horror, the Sino-variant, leads from London to Taiwan, then round in full circle to the mining country of Wales. Nothing is more American than the confrontation, when Craig, with score ticed in the ninth, belts the villain's fast one for a home run.

Finally! No more amorous adventure, but still sensational exploits galore, in the transition from fiction to fact. Though he died more than forty years ago, the man who called himself Harry Hou-dini—magician, escapologist, master showman—has left so vivid a legend that we have long needed this definitive biography, Houdini: The Untold Story, by Melbourne Christopher (Crowell, $6.95).

Born Erich Weiss in Budapest, Hungary, removed in infancy to more prosaic Appleton, Wisconsin, the boy soon developed those gifts which made him a vaudeville headliner all over the world. It was no easy road. Failure he knew, the bitterness of near-despair, before spectacular successes abroad led to equal success in America.

To his colorful story Mr. Melbourne Christopher brings taste, scholarship, insight, the touch of the biographer born. He has not greatly minimized legend by insisting on truth: through a hundred controversies or challenges Houdini the temperamental is allowed to reveal his own complex personality by his own words and deeds. This book is more than the best life of Houdini; it is, quite simply, one of the best biographies I have ever read.

66