## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

And now for September strangeness; don't call it the silly season. Though no first-rate detective novel has come to hand, at least I can offer you three roaring spy thrillers and a brilliant biography of the world's most famous real-life man of mystery.

Each of the three novels begins in London and soars away to explode elsewhere. Each has a protagonist different in nationality and profession, similar in unflappable super-cool. But, since the secret agent has become a folk hero as mighty and all-conquering as Tarzan, that's just as it should be.

Without a quotation which heads chapter nine of The Melting Man, by Victor Canning (Morrow, $5.95), nobody could tell what the title means. In every adventure Rcx Carver, that free-wheeling private investigator, seems to meet some espionage plot as inevitably as any Scotland Yard man on holiday finds the corpse in his car, under the bridge, or on the golf course.

To Rex Carver comes a call from arrogant Cavan O'Dowda, Irish multimillionaire with Napoleonic dreams of grandeur, two beautiful step-daughters, and somewhat less moral sense than the late Professor Moriarty. This tycoon hires our hero to find a car mysteriously lost on French soil while in charge of Stepdaughter Zelia. Rex, who can't see why losing even a Mercedes should so disturb the tycoon, rightly reasons that the Mercedes must contain some secret cache of great import.

International intrigue has already entered. Accepting the mission without knowing what he's looking for, Rex finds himself enmeshed both by his employer's other daughter and by the international intrigue. Our quest whips across Europe, with murder or mayhem at every turn, to culminate at O'Dowda's hall of waxworks in as fine a shemozzle as the current season affords. Rex Carver has done it again, with reliable Mr. Canning at the very top of his form.

Paul Harris, Scottish businessman of The Cold Jungle, by Gavin Black (Harper & Row, $4.95) has left his Far East base for Britain only to buy a ship from the Clydeside firm owned by his old friend Bill Cope. But there are too many snags; general fishiness becomes a reek before the scene shifts northwards.
