THE JURY BOX
By JOHN DICKSON CARR

Any such blood-and-thunder enthusiast as your obedient servant, after occupying his rostrum for almost four years, will have developed certain beliefs which might better be called superstitions. Month after month he sees inexorably approaching the deadline when copy must be delivered, although the postman has brought no new book he can recommend.

And yet, as a rule, all goes well. Though worthy items may arrive only days or even hours before deadline, they always seem to appear in time. Nevertheless, the critic can’t help wondering what must be his course if luck runs out with no good book at all.

“It’s all very well,” our poor wight reminds himself, “to say you’ll celebrate some acknowledged masterpiece from the past. This sort of thing, remember, has happened before. At various times, desperate, you’ve reviewed the complete Sherlock Holmes; you’ve reviewed both The Moonstone and The Woman in White; you’ve reviewed the complete Father Brown. There’s bound to be an end of this game. How many masterpieces are left?”

Well, your mentor is not defeated. I can still name one mystery-monger who meets every test. He wrote classic detection; he wrote honest thrill; and, though as his medium he chose the short story rather than the novel, he created not one picturesque detective, but five of them. Perhaps his identity has occurred to you. If not, I hold him in reserve for the future.

Though this month I feared I must quote my author-in-reserve, the rescuing cavalry galloped up. They brought one outstanding new detective novel; two paperback reprints—one detection, the other mystery-adventure—more than deserving attention; and, to buttress all three, a literally full-blooded study in murder which adds one or two footnotes to history.

Whether you are connoisseur or casual reader, you must not miss The Japanese Mistress, by Richard Neely (Saturday Review Press, $5.95). Young Scott Welles, attached to the American army

© 1972 by John Dickson Carr.
113