THE JURY BOX

By JOHN DICKSON CARR

Once more, although the month has provided some very poor books, a particular disappointment from usually reliable authors, it has also provided some very good ones. Nor will any critic complain that his grab-bag lacks variety when he can cite one detective novel both amusing and exciting, one cops-and-robbers caper in a stately cathedral city, one hell-roaring mystery-adven-ture, and one volume of short stories from the Victorian master of sensationalism a century ago. Any disappointing items may be left in limbo, according to custom. This department, a kind of criminous sundial, marks only the bright hours.

At an astronomical observatory in Rome, background of Dorothy Dunnett’s Murder in Focus (Houghton Mifflin, $5.95), the high jinks of Ruth Russell, attractive astronomer-photog-rapher—with her two colleagues and her boy friend, Charles Digham—suddenly go all awry with meaningless persecution-cum-murder.

That curious character with the toy balloon, who has stolen Charles’s camera, gets his head blown off in the men’s room at the zoo. Thus begins a chase in which our friends sometimes seem to be pursued by floating toy balloons which may or may not contain high explosive. As in other novels by Mrs. Dunnett, scenes of uproarious comedy precede scenes of genuine thrill, including the corpse in the deep-freeze at the observatory. Johnson Johnson, both eminent painter and Secret Service agent, is again on hand to unsnarl the tangle as pursuit ranges from Rome to Naples, then along the Mediterranean and back to Rome for a sensational finale whose villain may escape your notice. Mark it A-plus.

In The Theft of Magna Carta, by John Creasey (Scribners, $5.95), two suave international art thieves—American Neil Stephenson and British Frank Caldicott, assisted by the beautiful Sarah—plan their most spectacular coup. The Sarum Great Charter, best-preserved copy of that treasured document wrung from King John in 1215 and now guarded by elaborate measures at Salisbury Cathedral, will be worth millions on a crooks’ market, © 1973 by John Dickson Carr.

“It
M
him
plot
Rog
poli
I
Sali
.Wes
writ
A
The
grin
give
secr
have
Uni
Jam
Nim
unk
pho
caut
with
con
villa
reac
Sup
Her
had
or
t
Hea
gho
evil
wit
Stra
“Th
nov
Will
116