nearly became panic. Following the dinner, still more or less in public, our guest related to some of us the outcome of the celebrated murder trial in which he had successfully defended a notorious wrong 'un whose identity shall not be disclosed here. Let's call him Herbert Rumpus, a name unlike his own. His counsel, using real names, quoted Rumpus's words when the jury brought in their verdict of acquittal.

“Though he was speaking in a hushed whisper,” counsel said, “his thunderous incredulity seemed to ring through the courtroom as he blurted out: ‘Not guilty, Mr. Birkett? My God, not guilty?’”

Like the end of a good detective story, at least it had the merit of being unexpected.

That quality of the unexpected has large place in the various items we shall consider this month. Though there are only three books, the first will be an omnibus containing a trio of good detective novels, the second is galloping mystery-adventure with a neat twist at its finale, the third a collection of real-life oddities ranging from vampirism to buried treasure. In short, here's variety as well as quality; fall to!

In Archer At Large, by Ross Macdonald (Knopf, $7.95), we find The Galton Case, The Chill, and Black Money, all featuring one of the few tough private investigators with whom everybody can sympathize. Unlike the sneering, snarling heroes from Hammett or Chandler, Lew Archer is a decent sort who does not make bad manners the guiding principle of his life.

Ross Macdonald being a writer whose work has improved as he himself has matured, each novel is a genuine detective story as well as a genuine thriller; and Mr. Macdonald has one gift, ingenuity, denied those with whom he is usually compared. If Black Money may be the most polished performance among these three, the shock ending of The Chill, while perfectly fair, has been spun with such craft as almost to defy detection. Whether Lew Archer pursues a lost heir, a lost bride, or a presumed Frenchman with doubtful antecedents, let his path lie amid the unco’rich through the groves of academe, the ultimate move will be suitably violent and suitably satisfactory. Don’t miss a trick; the author never does.

About Leo Martin, protagonist-narrator in The Amphorae Pirates, by Lou Cameron (Random House, $4.95), the reader at first learns little except that Martin seems to be a free-lance writer and experienced scuba-diver. Various characters, mostly unlicensed, have been diving in Italian waters not only for amphorae, big earthenware jars

76

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED