which can be sold as antiques, but for gold and silver booty from long-sunken ships of Greece or Rome. In head-on collision Martin smacks against one such pirate, the big Hawaiian named Mike Konakai, with his vicious assistant and his Negro mistress.

Martin next encounters rich Dr. Menderes, who has a daughter as handsome as she is broad-minded, a genuine American passport, and a genuine salvage license from the Italian government. In his search for the most ancient of treasure-galleys the doctor already employs a diver, sinister Tancredi, but takes on our well-meaning narrator (is he so well-meaning?) for additional strength. Martin accepts this job with the connivance of big Mike Konakai, who will hijack the treasure once Dr. Menderes has found it. And watching everybody stands suspicious-minded Captain Colonna, Italian Navy, alert for dirty work against his country's interest.

The whole sea boils with underwater dirty work, including assorted murders, before tranquillity can be fished up from wreck. Here we have notable mystery-adventure well supported with clues to its surprise finish. Four stars and three cheers.

**Mischief in the Mountains**, edited by Walter R. Hard, Jr., and Janet C. Greene (Vermont Life Magazine, $5.95), has been aptly subtitled 'Strange Tales of Vermont and Vermonters.' For Green-Mountain Vermont, believe it or not, has not always bred the thrifty, laconic Yankee of popular legend. If it could produce Calvin Coolidge, it could also produce such flamboyant figures as 'Colonel' Jim Fisk, wildcat financier, and 'Colonel' George Harvey of newspaper and publishing fame. Finally, it could produce the individualists whose doings enliven this book.

They are far from being inhibited. The town of Chester had a gentleman burglar, Clarence Adams, who in true Deacon-Brodie style robbed his neighbors blind until the spring-gun trapped him at Waterman's Mill. Woodstock Green had, or thought they had, a vampire like Dracula. Whatever the truth of the matter, they dug him up to burn his heart in public. And old Mercie Dale so successfully cursed the Hayden family that there are no Haydens left. You would do well to browse through these tales. Not all concern crime; but, as Sherlock Holmes would have said, "there are some very pretty little problems among them." Good!
