THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Another Detection Club anecdote, if you don't mind. At the club's annual dinner in May of 1938, as already stated, our principal speaker was the barrister, Norman Birkett, K.C., who soon showed that he enjoyed nothing more than to appear for the defenseless and even the indefensible. But that is neither the beginning nor the end of the story.

Being honorary secretary at this time, I had been instructed by the committee to approach Mr. Birkett with a view of getting him there. And I acquired much credit among the brethren when I reported success. Somebody (not myself) started the whisper that I had lured him into our toils by a Machiavellian plot with overtones of blackmail. Though it would delight me to confirm this, nothing of the sort happened. All I did was write to the gentleman, introduce myself, and invite him. He replied, as promptly as courteously, that he had heard of our club and would be happy to accept, his sole stipulation being that we entertain no member of the press.

The first problem arose on the night of the dinner. I had never met Norman Birkett or seen his photograph; neither had anybody else. My wife was posted in the foyer at Grosvenor House to greet the person who in her judgment must be our guest. Now my wife cherished the belief, as I myself did, that any eminent K.C. would be barrel-shaped like Sir Henry Curtis Bennett. After several times accounting for the wrong man, she feared lest someone misconstrue her motives and call a cop. Mr. Birkett, who found us instead, proved to be long, lean, red-haired, and very amiable.

He had scarcely commenced his indiscret speech before I knew with alarm that I should never have guaranteed the absence of the press. True, no reporters had been invited. But each club member could bring as many guests as he liked, supplying only their names for the seating arrangements. At the very next table might lurk some eager beaver from the Daily Express, who would plaster counsel's remarks all over page one.

I need not have worried; no disaster ensued. And yet alarm very

75

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED