THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

This time, to cheer your mentor as well as those who read, we begin with a new detective novel of such high quality that it may fairly be called memorable, and continue through mystery-adventure and mystery-conspiracy to espionage. If those three succeeding items seem less impressive than the first, it is not easy even for good work to bear comparison with the very best.

And every story will entertain you; you can't go wrong here.

With Reverend Randolph and the Wages of Sin, by Charles Merrill Smith (Putnam, $6.95), the clerical roster stands complete. Joining such famous sleuths as Father Brown and Rabbi Small comes Dr. C. P. Randolph, former professional football player as well as ordained Protestant minister, but scholar and theologian, too.

Shrewd, tolerant, sympathetic, “C.P.” is called as interim pastor of a wealthy Chicago church, whose board of trustees has been manipulating the funds. Already he has challenged this when the murder of an absconding trustee’s beautiful wife, found nude and strangled in the choir room, threatens even worse scandal.

Cooperating with Police Lieutenant Casey, assisted by attractive Samantha Stack and advised by his broad-minded bishop, C.P. turns to detection. After some false starts he proves as adept as the author, himself a clergyman, proves adept at vivid character-drawing and the construction of ingenious plots. With humor, insight, and emotional strength, every clue in sight, we are swept towards a double-surprise finish of which even connois-seurs will anticipate only half the solution.

C. P. Randolph must not rest on his laurels. Apparently a first novel, this mystery is the most delightful for years.

Even today, we find from David Westheimer’s The Avila Gold (Putnam, $7.95), a search for buried treasure can become sharp-fanged adventure when the treasure has been buried in some spot now so populous that each move must be made by stealth.

Among old papers dating back to Spanish-ruled California, Ar-

© 1975 by John Dickson Carr.
89