88
THE JURY BOX

finds a shoot-out problem in the New West; Peter Lovesey’s Abracadaver chooses deviltry at Victorian music halls; but no background seems so wild as the television studio of the roaring problem set by Charles Larson in Someone’s Death.

Espionage? There have been some fine adventures for the secret agent, that modern hero trained to take every unfair advantage. Usually either Yankee or Limey, the hero is American in Michael Bar-Zohar’s The Third Truth; British in Berkely Mather’s Snowline; British in Burton Graham’s The Spy Trap; American and British in William P. McGivern’s Caprifoil; and, finally, ‘American again in Assignment—Maltese Maiden, by Edward S. Aarons. Nor must we overlook the Irishman of Shaun Herron’s Through the Dark and Hairy Wood.

The best items in our third category, mystery-adventure, don’t let their rattle-bang action prevent them from playing almost as fair with clues as any detective story. Cornered at Six, by Thomas Patrick McMahon and Major Brian Patrick McMahon, relates an aerial (and earthly) imbroglio of peculiar viciousness. You won’t easily resist the pace of Owen Sela’s The Bearer Plot, sweeping from London across the continent of its Swiss finale. Postscript to a Dead Letter, by Donald MacKenzie, carries a Canadian newsman in triumph through the Paris underworld, whereas The Matlock Paper, by Robert Ludlum, blows hell out of a university town near home. From Richard Falkirk have come two first-class novels; Blackstone’ and Blackstone’s Fancy, about that tough Bow Street Runner in the early years of the nineteenth century.

... Recalling that on frequent occasions there has been praise for a book of short stories, I omit one example beyond our scope here because it can be found only in some second-hand bookshop. New and available is Judge Dee at Work, by Robert van Gulik, eight cases for a stern but humane jurist detective interpreting evidence in T’ang Empire China of the seventh century A.D. Also available, substantially paperbound, are Wilkie Collins’s Tales of Terror and the Supernatural, edited by Herbert van Thal, and Ernest Bramah’s Best Max Carrados Detective Stories, edited by E. F. Bleiler, both recommended to every connoisseur.

... In no particular category, neither mystery-adventure nor straight detection though allied with both, Jean Stubbs’s 1890 poisoning drama, Dear Laura, serves fittingly to conclude this summary of a year which, on the whole, has been no disappointment at all.