THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Professionally speaking, it's a pleasure to report, spring develops well. The postman, less capricious than usual, has favored me with so many worthy new items that this month and next month, at least, I need not gripe to high heaven or fall back on some masterpiece from the past. And, since these books fall more or less into the categories I should have requested if I had been allowed to order them, let's proceed.

Though listed as “suspense” (I wish they wouldn’t), Season of Snows and Sins, by Patricia Moyes (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, $4.95), is in fact a sound, ingenious detective novel of the classic pattern, with strong characterization and vivid atmosphere. As narrated by three very different women—Jane Weston, sympathetic English widow; beautiful, too-careless Sylvie Claudet; our old friend Emmy Tibbett, wife of Detective Chief Superintendent Henry Tibbett, Scotland Yard—blackmail and murder disrupt a Swiss ski resort bulging with guests.

Orphan Anne-Marie, whom everybody likes, has married a fledgling ski instructor. Then all good omens turn sour; the marriage ends with a brutal knifing in which Anne-Marie herself seems the only possible culprit. From bakery to four-star hotel, from Jane’s bleak chalet to the luxury flat of the French cabinet minister, every corner of Montarraz shakes with conflict.

Accompanying his Emmy on a visit, Superintendent Tibbett accepts the challenge; pull-sleuth, pull-murderer for their ding-dong tug of homicide. And, though less showily displayed than in some earlier stories by Miss Moyes, all the clues are there.

Oliver Bleeck’s The Procane Chronicle (Morrow, $5.95) brings back Philip St. Ives, professional go-between in the recovery of heisted loot, for another superior thriller, bound New York to Washington, along the outer fringes of the law. This time our narrator must ransom the stolen diary of Abner Procane, now almost retired as the world’s greatest thief, whose diary contains enough self-incrimination to jail a haloed saint.

© 1972 by John Dickson Carr.
91