inal Scotland Yard at Whitehall Place.
Sent to India on police duty during the savage Sepoy Mutiny of 1857, stout and pink-faced Verity swelters in formal frock coat as he attacks a mystery apparently impossible of solution. The Kaiser-i-Hind, a huge diamond symbolizing rule, vanishes as though by magic at the very moment it is handed over to Britain.
What Verity may lack in formal education he more than provides in native intelligence. His explanation of the vanished diamond (and who stole it) is as ingenious as it is well conceived and fair. His saga is entwined with that of Judith Perry, an English beauty who has been captured by Nana Sahib, evil genius of the mutiny.
Enfin, let the reader beware! Our tale has not ended even when Judith and Verity are homeward bound. There’s one last surprise, which might well have shocked Her Majesty’s government if close-mouthed Sergeant Verity had ever decided to speak.
In Gently with the Painters by Alan Hunter (Macmillan, $6.95)

we follow Superintendent George Gently, C.I.D., through this tricky maze of murder in an English cathedral city.

Attractive young Shirley Johnson, artist-wife of a former R.A.F. hero, has been found stabbed to death behind dustbins at City Hall. Amid many would-be painters, only one of them professional but most of them eccentric, Gently stumbles through conflicting clues until the right lead sparks a disclosure few but the connoisseur will anticipate.

First-rate.
If all selections this month are British, that’s how the ball bounces. And there’s some fast, expert bouncing throughout Dick Francis’s new racing epic, High Stakes (Harper & Row, $7.95).

Steven Scott, whose talent for inventing profitable toys earns him the wealth to buy a sound stable of horses, has been cheated of more than thirty thousand pounds by his false friend and trainer, Jody Leeds. Aided by real friend Charlie Canterfield and Alexandra Ward, the Ameri-can girl, Scott contrives to settle the hash of his enemy at the cli-max of this really brilliant run.

© 1976 by John Dickson Carr.

132