THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Your mentor, now fully recovered from a long and tedious illness, once more mounts the familiar rostrum to preach. Plus ca change, plus ca c'est la même chose. Let's hope this rejuvenated mentor won't bore you.

Should I try to assess books published during my absence, or ignore the hiatus and carry on?

Well, that problem has been solved by compromise. Among items dutifully read during convalescence, two were of such outstanding merit that they could not be ignored. Therefore we shall begin with those two. Both are fair-play detective novels spiced with thrill, though one depicts high-pressure modern London and the other carries us back to nineteenth-century British India at the peak of Victorian powder. In conclusion, bringing us up to date, the second pair under review will be the two best novels landing on this desk in recent weeks.

Candles for the Dead by Harry Carmichael (Saturday Review Press, $6.95) offers another intriguing problem to the amateur detective team of Insurance Investigator John Piper and cigarette-cadging Quinn, ingenious-minded crime reporter whose first name we never hear.

David Breame, flying home to London after business in Stockholm, brings with him an elaborate cake which, he explains to the customs, he has been persuaded by a sensuous Swedish blonde to carry as a birthday present for the blonde's seven-year-old child, now in England with the child's father.

When the cake proves to have certain suspicious contents, when neither alleged child nor alleged father can be found, inexplicable violence explodes at once. David Breame's wife won't forgive his night of love with the Swe-dish blonde. After Breame has been tortured by two thugs for something they don't find, his innocent business partner is brutal-ly slain in the flat Breame has shared with that unrelenting wife.

Crime Reporter Quinn takes up the trail as more murder erupts. He and Piper sift the clues, arriving at the same solution as Scotland Yard. Together they nail the principal villain of a murder-for-profit scheme far more subtle and complex than it appears. Here's sophisticated diablerie, highly recommended.

Rich in Victorian detail, Francis Selwyn's Sergeant Verity and the Imperial Diamond (Stein and Day, $7.95) glorifies Detective Sergeant William Clarence Verity, plainclothes detail, from the orig-

131