## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

Salve tibil Having now occupied this rostrum for a full year, your mentor feels impelled to utter a few thoughts it has inspired. Before assuming these robes I had sometimes regarded critics as a sour, dyspeptic race apart, And yet here I am one of them, frequently gripping away like the worst.

A year ago I discussed reviewing with the editor-in-chief of this magazine.

“Every column,” the editor suggested, “might be a little sermon on mysteries or mystery writing. And you needn’t confine yourself to the current crop. When nothing new seems praiseworthy, feel free to talk about some masterpiece of the past.”

“Excellent!” said I, sounding rather like John H. Watson. “If the going gets really rough, there’s always The Moonstone or The Complete Sherlock Holmes.”

I was far from serious in this pronouncement; the editor did not call it elementary. But what we considered a fairly remote prospect in sober truth came to pass. Last month, desperate, I found myself reviewing both those works in the same issue.

My critical brethren usually wind up December by selecting what they are pleased to call the year’s ten best. This department, with sound reason, must refrain from any choices arbitrarily so stamped. I can’t be sure publishers have sent me even half the good new mysteries, though virtually certain I have been stuck with all the bad ones.

On the other hand, never think that Rhadamanthus has spent the whole year in a torture chamber. As here already noted, there have been admirable examples of the mystery-adventure and the spy thriller. Mystery-adventures and spy thrillers need display neither that dazzling ingenuity nor that strict fair play which characterize fine detective fiction, although your outstanding item in each category, as with Stanley Ellin’s The Valentine Estate or Richard Meade’s The Danube Runs Red, may be both highly ingenious and strictly fair.

But what of my beau idéal and ewe lamb, the Honest Injun detective novel with full-scale evidence and loaded ending? In that field more than a few established craftsmen—Ellery Queen, Michael Innes, Judson Philips, Ed McBain, Robert L. Fish, Robert Van Gulik—have upheld
