their reputations well. Even so, this is not quite what you were promised.
Two months ago I said that at the year's end I should be able to cite four brilliant new detective writers who, if not all tyros in the strictest sense, were at least comparative beginners at their craft. And that promise I am proud to keep. A little reflection in fact, can provide five names instead of four. Each has mastered good English. Though one or two have flirted with espionage, each employs Honest Injun technique. You should be safe with anything they write.
High honors, then, for Emma Lathen (Come to Dust), for Patricia Moyes (Death and the Dutch Uncle), for Dorothy Dunnett (The Photogenic Soprano), for Eilis Dillon (Sent to His Account), for Mildred Davis (The Third Half). Did I say five? No, damme! Let's make it half a dozen.
As the only book not hitherto assessed, try If. the Shround Fits, by Paul Kruger (Simon & Schuster, $4.95). Follow a bloodstained track of ingenuity that twists through life high to low, with its vicious multiple murderer always one dodge ahead until young Lawyer Kramer interprets the clues. And to the company of the above five practitioners admit Paul Kruger.
Patricia-Moyes, Dorothy Dunnett, Eilis Dillon, Emma Lathen, Mildred Davis, Paul Kruger: two British, one Irish, three American. With the apparent exception of the last-named, they are all women. But the exception is apparent rather than real. My secret agents have learned that 'Mr.' Kruger also buttons 'his' coat on the left-hand side: a disclosure made with full permission of the author and her publisher.
Do I seem to be saying that, among new mystery mongers who play fair, only the ladies can be gentlemen? Oh, no. We could just as well honor the team of Maj Stowall and Per Wahloo, fifty per cent masculine, with The Man Who Went Up in Snoke. Jeremy Potter's The Dance of Death is a sound first effort, indisputably male. Nor must we forget E. Richard Johnson (MongoDB's Back in Town) or Selwyn Jepson (The Angry Millionaire). And burn my britches if that's not ten in all!
So there was no real reason for such incessant squawking. The present is bright; with beaming face I anticipate a still brighter future; let me be known as Carr the Glad Guy, blood kin to Pollyanna herself. Meanwhile, as sanity insurance for 1970, has anybody got a copy of The Complete Father Brown?
112
LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED