Did Dickens Murder Drood?; SCENES FROM 'EDWIN DROOD' The Drood Mystery
March 25, 1951


N June 8, 1870, amid the mirrors of the Swiss chalet opposite Gad's Hill, Charles Dickens was working hard at his new novel, "The Mystery of Edwin Drood." Despite the ill- health which made him look much older than his 58 years, Dickens seemed in excellent spirits when he returned to the house for dinner. However, at dinner he fell down in a fit. The following morning he died. The death of Dickens was not only an international calamity; it left behind an international mystery. His last novel-only half completed-was a detective story. With this book Dickens had set himself a very particu- lar kind of challenge. In recent years his plots and plot-constructions had been crit- icized. Perhaps he was too sen- sitive: all open nerves, hounded toward death by his own imagi- nation. Yet he bitterly resented criticism of the plots, because he prided himself on his crafts- manship. In 1868 his close friend, William Wilkie Collins, had dazzled readers with the yellow-diamond glitter of "The Moonstone," so fine in sheer in- genuity. Dickens was deter- mined to show that the Old Master could beat Wilkie Col- lins at the pupil's own game. The secret of Edwin Drood died with Dickens, and there has been immense argument and controversy to this day. J. Cum- ing Walters' monumental work, "The Complete Mystery of Ed- win Drood" (London: Chapman and Hall, 1912), summarizes most, though far from all, of the solutions yet presented. Now Mr. Carr, well-known for his own mystery stories, has been investigating the Edwin Drood affair for many years. we have a new and brilliant critic, Richard M. Baker, with a new and brilliant book. Mr. Baker, in "The Drood Murder Case," does not try to finish the story. Several novel- ists have attempted this, with sad results because nobody could or can write as well as Charles Dickens. Mr. Baker is a critical analyst, deeply read in source-materials, firing de- tails like arrows, and supplying an answer for every problem. "The Drood Murder Case" is so absorbing, so well written, above all so closely reasoned, that nearly all his arguments-with one notable exception - seem unanswerable. Yet even to praise the analy- sis is to suppose that those who read this are still familiar with the details of Dickens' tightly woven plot in "The Mystery of Edwin Drood." Possibly only a hazy memory of its background remains: the drowsy old cathe- dral town of Cloisterham (Roch- ester), under a gloom of au- tumn in the air and autumn in Dickens' heart. N Cloisterham lives John Jas- per, lay precentor and choir- master at the cathedral: Jas- per, with his heavy side-whis- kers and deep voice; secretly an opium-smoker, carving devils out of his own heart. He is tor- mented with love a better word, as Mr. Baker says, would be lust for the attractive though unfortunately named heroine, Rosa Bud. Rosa, a pu- pil at Miss Twinkleton's Acad- emy, has been pledged since childhood by her now-dead par- ents to marry young Edwin Drood. And Edwin boyish, empty-headed, with his cool airs and his sneering laugh-is the “beloved" nephew and ward of John Jasper. Against the gray cathedral, with rooks cawing about its square tower, we also see the beaming, athletic clergyman, Minor Canon Crisparkle. To Septimus Crisparkle, as stran- gers from Ceylon, come the swarthy young Neville Landless, hot-tempered but straightfor- ward, and his equally fiery twin-sister, Helena Landless. Trouble begins to boil almost as soon as Rosa and Edwin meet Neville and Helena Land- less. Neville is studying with Canon Crisparkle; Helena is a pupil at Miss Twinkleton's, like a grown woman amid the twit- ter of canaries. Edwin Drood, in his lazy way, is rather smit- ten with Helena Landless. Nev- ille has fallen strongly in love with Rosa, and can scarcely

Good and Evil

THE central theme of "Ed- win Drood" is the enigma of a man's soul torn by the eternal struggle between good and evil-a soul whose internal warfare is rendered the more dramatic because it belongs not only to John Jasper, choirmaster and mur- derer, but also to Charles Dickens, a great literary ar- tist. Richard M. Baker in "The Drood Murder Case.” conceal it. There is nearly a fight between Edwin and Nev- ille, which is first urged on and then hypocritically soothed by the close-watching John Jasper. Under the ominous chapter- title, WHEN SHALL THESE THREE MEET AGAIN?, Edwin Drood, Neville Landless and John Jasper gather to dine in Jasper's snug rooms above the gatehouse. That night a great storm of wind whirls over Clois- terham, smashing the street lamps, ripping off roof tiles amid clods of flying dirt. At dawn, a haggard Jasper ap- pears at Canon Crisparkle's house.

"Where is my nephew?"

"He has not been here. Is he not with you?"

"No. He went down to the

(Continued on Page 18)

THE DROOD MURDER CASE. Five Studies in Dickens' "Edwin Drood."

By Richard M. Baker. 195 pp. Ber- keley: University of California Press. $3.

SCENES FROM ‘EDWIN DROOD'

The Drood Mystery

(Continued from Page 5)

river last night, with Mr. Nev- ille, to look at the storm, and has not been back. Call Mr. Neville!"

Has Edwin Drood been mur- dered? Mr. Baker, as always with excellent reasons, replies, "Yes." Other Droodians, includ- ing myself, will thunder out: "Of course he was!" A reader must be blind or insensitive who cannot feel death in the very texture of the story: aside even from the notes, intended for Dickens' own eye alone, which describe the theme as murder. With only one point in "The Drood Murder Case" does it seem possible to disagree with Mr. Baker. This is his conten- tion that John Jasper, the ob- vious suspect, is in fact the murderer. We may agree that Jasper wanted to murder Edwin and did dispose of the body. Yet I maintain that Jasper did not commit the murder; that the identity of the murderer is fully indicated by clues in the book; and that this was the thunder- bolt-surprise with which Dick- ens meant to beat Wilkie Col- lins in the game of ingenuity.

THE reviewer's job, however, is not to parade his own theo- ries, but to assess the book. Per- haps Mr. Baker's most fascinat- ing theory is that the aging Dickens, at heart embittered and a social rebel, poured much of himself into the character of Jasper. Everyone now knows how Dickens' already tottering marriage was upset by his love- affair with the 18-year-old ac- tress, Ellen Ternan. In the most intimate account of this, told by Kate (Dickens) Perugini to Miss Gladys Storey in "Dickens and Daughter" (Lon- don: Frederick Muller, 1939), we learn how the nerve-torn Dickens insisted that his wife should pay a formal call on his mistress; and thereby like many a man before him, he wrecked everything. Though Mr. Baker's theory appears sound and is possibly true, it must be weighed and weighed again, without moral- izing or false sentiment. It must be discussed round what G. K. Chesterton called "the gigantic firelight of Dickens." In any event, Mr. Baker's book is the best study of "Edwin Drood" I have ever read.

Editors’ Picks


What the Y2K Generation’s ‘Hot Girl’ Thinks About It All Now
