anything but the hopeless mug his conduct might sometimes indicate.
This time it's Chester Conway, New York taxi-driver and compulsive gambler. Having put his modest stake on a longshot horse which wins at twenty-seven to one. Chet has no wish but to collect. Since someone has shot down the bookie with dum-dum bullets, his prospect of collecting seems remote; and still more remote when with Abbie McKay, the beautiful blonde dealer from Las Vegas, he flees across Manhattan before two rival gangs who can agree only on the necessity for eliminating Chet Conway.
So much broad comedy must not obscure the fact that Somebody Owes. Me Money is a good mystery of sound construction. The author is never merely skylarking; events at their most outrageous have form, pattern, and an explanation behind them. Verdict: an unpretentious winner.
Before you have finished Gideon's Power, by J.J. Marric (Harper & Row, $4.95), you will learn much more about Commander George Gideon, C.I.D., about his family and his associates as well as about the tangle of criminal cases whose threads lie across his desk: sabotage at London's power stations, child rape and murder, a man serving life for a crime of which he may be innocent.
The Gideon novels are too much human documents, and contain too much classic detection to be tagged as mere 'police procedure' or anything run-of-the-mill. This latest, combining sensational denouement with homely domestic 'finale, proves' Mr. Creasey, disguised as J.J. Marric, the master story-teller he has always been.
In Ashenden, by W. Somerset Maugham (Avon, 95¢), perhaps the master story-teller wrote a classic of espionage over forty years ago. I first read Ashenden about 1928, unable to resist the advertising lure, “Death Walks in Evening-Clothes Behind the British Lines”, and many besides myself must welcome a new edition in paperback. With scenes ranging from Switzerland to Russia during World War I, these spy stories are the real thing.
Though we find no tricks or twists except the tricks or twists of human nature, human nature itself can be as unexpected and as startling as any crafty device for committing murder or conveying secret information. At the end of one adventure Ashenden cries out, “You bloody fool, you’ve killed the wrong man.” At the end of the whole chronicle, after so many different characters have provided their various surprises, it will be a rare reader who does not say to himself, “You fortunate son of a so-and-so, you’ve got the right book.”
115