THE JURY BOX

By JOHN DICKSON CARR

This time, playing the hand as dealt, your mentor must lead his column with a novel of classic detection from the past. But it's not really a gripe. Since luck has provided three first-rate mystery thrillers, two with overtones of espionage, they need be supported by only one title from the hoard kept for that purpose. And who am I to complain at so limited a demand on my reserves?

Though published as long ago as 1928, The Prisoner in the Opal, by A. E. W. Mason, has lost none of its vividness, its humor, or its hypnotic charm.

Wealthy, ultra-English Mr. Ricardo, kind of heart and romantic of soul, is caught into the evil web spun round many picturesque characters at Diana Tasborough's Chateau Suvlac in the French wine-making country near Bordeaux. We meet handsome Diana and her estate manager, Robin Webster; we meet Monsieur de Mirandol and the American heroine, Joyce Whipple. Particularly we meet Mr. Ricardo's friend Hanaud, the big French detective with keen wits as well as primitive sense of humor; even his mis-use of the English language has Gallic style and panache.

Why did lights burn late in the conference room at the Chateau de Mirandol? Who stabbed tempestuous Evelyn Devénish and hacked off her hand at the wrist? What feature linked the Cave of the Mummies to the home of an unsavory old harridan called the Widow Chicholle? If they have abducted Joyce Whipple, where are they holding her? Hyper-aesthetics tend to play down this book or ignore it; pay no attention to them. If once more I must send you to dusty old shelves for an out-of-print title, I swear you will find The Prisoner in the Opal second only to A. E. W. Mason's admitted masterpiece, The House of the Arrow.

Though the espionage which explodes through William Harrington's Scorpio 5 (Coward, McCann & Geoghegan, $8.95) is industrial rather than international, it can be no less deadly or destructive in domestic life.

The scientific genius of our beautiful anti-heroine, Giovanna

© 1975 by John Dickson Carr.

110