THE JURY BOX 117

plotting and vivid characterization, from faculty to graduate students to interfering females allied with administration. One more murder, poor What'shername's, speeds the action towards its dramatic end. And all the evidence is there.

We must have more campus dirty work from a baffler of such obvious talent. In non-academic terms, let it firmly be stated, Miss Taylor has plenty of class.

For those of us who lived in England not only throughout Hitler's War but during those uneasy, espionage-haunted nineteen fifties, The Spy Trap, by Burton Graham (Weybright and Talley, $4.95), strikes a reminiscent chord. Mystery has always surrounded the death of Commander Crabb, famous British frogman, who may have got too close to a visiting Russian warship. Modern as today's newspaper, this story harks back.

Michael Evans, cloak-and-dagger brigade, runs slap into attempted murder at every turn. The German popsy of Author's Agent Stringer has promised him a manuscript with the truth about Commander Crabb if he can whisk that manuscript past Soviet Security. Whereupon Evans, Stringer, American Newswoman Sara Collins, a Russian defector, and sinister Kovarsky of sinister Department S thud together at homicidal football with unknown X in the backfield.

Climaxing a wild chase following that last confrontation at the Polish farm, Evans and the Russian defector must batter their way into East Germany before they can get out again, which suitably concludes this first novel of promise already fulfilled.

In A Matter of Confidence, by Brad Williams and J. W. Erlich (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, $4.95), professional writer and formidable courtroom lawyer have produced mystery-adventure loaded with high explosive. The jade chess set smuggled out of Red China for Millionaire Antoine Straus may or may not be Persian masterwork more than a thousand years old. Death and destruction follow at once.

The flavor of San Francisco's Chinatown drifts through each incident like fog from the bay, bedevilling attorney Sam Benedict. In court Sam must prove that the shooting of Johnnie Wung was no murder; out of court he must show who strangled the airline hostess at the Airline Hotel. Despite mayhem and arson from young hoods uncontrolled by the Chinese Six Companies, proof seems elusive until a certain person's mask drops during a burst of gun play at the end. First class.