## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

Lest from month to month I should seem to do little but gripe about the scarcity of outstanding new novels, permit me to qualify the complaint. Your correspondent is not rash enough categorically to assert that only one first-class new mystery has appeared during the time under consideration. Let caution prevail; I say merely that the book mentioned at the end of this column is the only first-class new mystery any publisher has seen fit to send me.

To provide additional reading which can be praised without reserve, then, for the second successive month we must delve into the past Fortunately three criminous classics, each a masterpiece—Before the Fact, Trent's Last Case, and The House of the Arrow—may be found in one Modern Library Giant, reasonably priced at $3.95.

It is true that this collection, under the omnibus title Three Famous Murder Novels, has been available since Mr. Cerf of Random House compiled it well over two decades ago. No matter; there it is. Whether you are a young devotee or an old hand at the game, let not your lip curl with scorn or pass uncaring by. Get this book at once; be born again in innocence as you watch the great craftsmen spin their webs.

“Some women give birth to murderers, some go to bed with them, and some marry them. Lina Ayrsgarth had lived with her husband for nearly eight years before she realized that she was married to a murderer.”

So begins Before the Fact, which my old friend Anthony Berkeley Cox wrote under the pen name of Francis Iles. Through the enchanting world of pre-Socialist Britain moves Lina Ayrsgarth, born Lina McLaid-law of old Scottish stock, intelligent and attractive though verging on spinsterhood; she is also an heiress. In the first chapter she falls hard for aristocratic but impoverished Johnnie Ayrsgarth, whose charm conceals his worthlessness and whose apparent generosity masks a callous heart. Once these two are safely married, can Lina ever again be safe?

With an insight sometimes compassionate, more often cruel, the author piles incident on incident to show passions aboil below the surface. Though Lina's eyes we watch incessant trickery, and we have been warned to anticipate her discovery of a tiger behind the bedroom cur-
