tains. Will the tiger spring and rend her, or is it only an erratic house-cat with no real taste for blood? You will not know until the end, but you will very much want to know.

Trent's Last Case, by E.C. Bentley, was originally published in 1913. Though not the first fair-play detective novel, an honor belonging to The Moonstone, it was the first detective novel to employ all those fair-play methods at which every worthy practitioner now aims.

When American Millionaire Manderson is shot to death near his home in England, Philip Trent, our sympathetic special correspondent-detective, finds a situation so topsy-turvy that no feature of it seems to make sense. What of the dead man's two secretaries? What of his-al-luring widow, who disturbs Trent's judgment from the first? How far Trent's judgment has been disturbed he himself never realizes until that last shattering upset at the restaurant table, after an almost inescapable net has been drawn round the wrong man. Don't fail to read or read; ingenuity, charm, and good writing remain completely undimmed.

About to call my third selection another straightforward murder mystery, I remembered that A.E.W. Mason's The House of the Arrow, praise be, is straightforward in nothing except its generosity with clues. After violence explodes amid 'proper' English residents in the French city of Dijon, few of them turn out to be so very proper after all. Jim Frobisher, the young lawyer arriving from London in response to a cry for help, lands between two beautiful girls with similar inclinations but strikingly different methods. He also encounters Inspector Hanaud of the Surette, the big French detective with the primitive sense of humor, who is always 'noticing' something beyond Jim's ken. We are not in Dijon alone; we are in the very heart of evil.

This book strikes straight at the emotions, involving the reader despite himself, with a central plot-device as fiendishly ingenious as it is absurdly simple when you learn the secret. The House of the Arrow was highly prized by (of all people) the late Havelock Ellis, and it is my own choice for the best detective novel ever written.

After a bevy of such dazzlers, how shall any current offering compare? The Haunted Monastery, by Robert van Gulik (Scribners, $3.95) will not match the skill or power of the preceding three. And yet Judge Dee, Chinese magistrate of the Tang Dynasty more than a thousand years ago, nevertheless can qualify as a sleuth of the true vintage. Storm-stayed with his three wives at a Taoist monastery where other women may have been done to death among the monks, he plucks a surprise solution out of chaos. Judge Dee deserves your attention; if he is not Trent or Hanaud, he is far from unworthy of their company.

66