THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

This month, good brethren, the cards have been dealt in a somewhat different way. Though I can offer you only one detective novel, it is more than strengthened by three superior items of mystery-adventure intrigue: all three British, all guaranteed sensational, the last-named a roaring chronicle of London in the early nineteenth century. That's no sales pitch, to which your mentor never descends; it's sober truth.

At the outset you may not expect Someone's Death, by Charles Larson (Lippincott, $5.95), to be a detective story of classic pattern, or in fact of any pattern. This “inside look at the television industry,” background Hollywood, depicts an inferno in which only Producer Nils-Frederik Blixen—another private-eye series—retains some grip on sanity amid the uproar.

Blixen needs that sanity. With Joanna Redfern, his attractive casting director, accused of one brutal murder after another, this poor devil has even worse woes off camera. The cynical reader, exposed to so many television shows in which the solution of the mystery proves merely simple-minded or naive, need not fear to be let down at the finale. Mr. Larson, himself a writer-producer, has avoided every obvious trap. Zany characters or no, he has given us a sound, ingenious story with all the clues in sight.

As regards adventure-intrigue, mystery-spiced, you must try Gavin Lyall’s Blame the Dead (Viking Press, $6.95), if you crave high-tension thrill.

James Card, formerly British Intelligence, travels from London to France as bodyguard of one Martin Fenwick, a mysterious businessman carrying a mysterious brown-paper parcel. In the Grand Place, Arras, Fenwick is shot to death from ambush. The parcel, saved and opened by Card, contains only a copy of the children’s fare called “Bertie Bear’s Coloring Book.”

Actually, of course, it was supposed to contain some other book, worth the sacrifice of a dozen lives. At once James Card is flung into the realm of wealth and of marine insurance, with Fenwick’s widow, his schoolboy son, and his insufferable partner, © 1973 by John Dickson Carr.

103

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED