104 THE JURY BOX

the savage-tempered Paul Mockby. He is also flung into a nightmare realm of abductions and punch-ups, carrying mayhem's trail from England and France to the port of Bergen in Norway.

The secret of an alcoholic ship's engineer is also the secret of a marine disaster, unrevealed until that last plot-twist amid flying bullets. And Gavin Lyall, always reliable, has surpassed even his outstanding performance in Midnight Plus One.

With Snowline, by Berkely Mather (Scribners, $6.95), we find our Welsh friend Idwall Rees once more at secret-service work under a tricky and treacherous boss called The Gaffer.

In India, Rees learns, Italian and Indian crime syndicates have organized gangs of outlandish but harmless-seeming hippies—hair, beads, and all-to smuggle base morphine from Calcutta to Marseilles in southern France. With their previous route through Turkey now blocked by the Turkish government, they have found some new drug-run as yet unknown to authority. Assisted or hampered by two Scotland Yard men from home, as well as by Safaraz, his trouble-making servant, Idwall Rees must find the new “snowline” and seal it up.

Though most hippies concerned are mere dupes or addicts—Pewsey Darrell might help Rees if she dared—like zombies they obey a murderous core whose leader, the Smiling One, is the most vicious of all. In disguise or out of it, with blood spurting from every side, Rees and Safaraz batter against obstacles from Calcutta to a far, perilous place. There, with the whole scheme disclosed, the bad guys are squashed and the Smiling One gets his comeuppance. Polished dirty work, here recommended.

With no inhibitions of any kind, Blackstone, by Richard Falkirk (Stein and Day, $6.95), gustily recreates the crude, boisterous England of the year 1826, when George the Fourth still reigned. The king's only heir being Brother William, who has no legitimate issue, next in line for the throne will be seven-year-old Princess Alexandrina Victoria, daughter of the late Duke of Kent.

Is there in fact a plot to kidnap Princess Victoria from Kensington Palace? As guardian for this not-so-angelic child comes Edmund Blackstone, hardest nail of the Bow Street Runners, in a tale galloping with action towards its dramatic end. Such things never happened, let's admit. Yet to a student of history, remembering certain real-life characters involved, the near-successful kidnapping seems plausible after all.

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED