From the moment he finds the murdered girl in his office, we are on Jones's side throughout his constant tilts against the law, throughout his less than idyllic interlude with Nicolette of Paris, throughout his frantic effort to hide corpses that keep turning up, to the last jangle of nerves when they almost trap him.
Over everything broods the spirit of one dead for so long a time: Thomas Rowlandson, the brilliant caricaturist whose drawings linked eighteenth century to nineteenth, and who is Rowlandson Jones's hero. Living and dead make formidable partners for a first-class murder mystery with antiquarian overtones, in which Rowlandson Jones triumphs even when he has joined his hero among the shades.
A Kiss Before Dying, by Ira Levin (Simon & Schuster, $4.95) is the hardcover reprint of a classic thriller first published more than a decade ago. Fully to explain the book's theme, except that it concerns a vicious youth who makes murder his habit, would be telling too much beforehand. We watch this rake's progress in a kind of frozen fascination. He never gambles but with stacked cards; he never plays but with luck. How long will he get away with it? How long could anybody get away with it?
More carefully constructed than the casual approach would indicate, A Kiss Before Dying packs its surprise wallop in the middle rather than at the end. The end, suitably violent, becomes an exercise in sheer horror. If you missed it the first time round, don't miss it now.
To conclude with espionage-cum-adventure, Robert Wade's Knave of Eagles (Random House, $4.95) will delight those who prefer cloak and dagger of the more sophisticated sort. Gil Rolfe, television executive, must slip under wraps into Castro's Cuba and smuggle out the ballplayer who alone can pitch his team to a World Series victory.
Gil's lifelong motto, "Thou shalt not care a damn for anything," remains unshaken by knives or bullets or doubledealing in the Havana of the Bearded One. It is only hardened by the grotesque situation he must resolve: the ballplayer has a girl, the girl has a family, and nobody will leave without everybody else. Also, though Ester of the Underground means much to our amateur secret agent, does she mean enough to upset his detachment? We are past the bitterly ironic explanation of someone's counter-Castro plot before Gil discovers he can just possibly care a damn for something after all, and we have been treated to some triumphant storytelling along the way.
53