BEST MYSTERIES
OF THE MONTH

recommended by JOHN DICKSON CARR

And still there need be no gripping. Once more, I am happy to report, the fare at table is varied, sustaining, and suited to the palate of any gourmet. However, lest this introduction should sound like a television commercial, let's dispense with further preliminaries.

If you have not yet met saturnine Captain Jose Da Silva, the Brazilian police's liaison officer with Interpol, and Da Silva's friend Wilson, that American Embassy dignitary who has proved anything but a stooge in other cases, by all means make their acquaintance with The Xavier Affair, by Robert L. Fish (Putnam, $4.50).

Against the well evoked background, Rio and much of the countryside too, young Chico Xavier, whose father is among Brazil's richest men, plans with his friends and his mistress a fake kidnapping in which the ransom shall be a huge and profitable joke on his old man. Then something goes wrong; the whole scheme blows up in a murder which seems as mysterious to Rio's gilded youth as it is to Da Silva and Wilson. Who really strangled the victim, in the middle of so foul a slum? Who stepped in and took the half-million-dollar ransom? And just how does beautiful Romana Vilares figure in all this?

For sixteen chapters, amid colorful characters from the exalted to the low, our author expertly blends detective work with fast action and shock. There is a wild car chase over tortuous mountain roads. There is another strangling, this time in the soft atmosphere of a luxury apartment. The pace roars to a double-twist surprise finale after the problem seems solved; its central clue has been as large (but as deceptive) as life itself. And Mr. Fish has written his best book.

Since the anti-hero of crime fiction is usually a young man with at least some romantic qualities, we come astonished to The Dance of Death, by Jeremy Potter (Walker, $4.50), in which the anti-hero is fat, elderly, and bumbling as well as dishonest. Rowlandson Jones, London art dealer, has a fine gallery in Soho, a handsome if shrewish wife, and extra-marital amorous tastes more suited to a man half his age. Nevertheless, despite all this sham respectability, he is so engagingly presented that we can't help sympathizing.

52