THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

In attempting to trace the origin of good old words or phrases, research need not exclude harmless slang. Only the other day, for instance, some of us began debating “to have a skinful,” meaning a load of booze. One person thought it fairly modern, another voted for Edwardian times, still a third would have traced it as far back as the reign of Queen Victoria herself.

We looked it up in Partridge’s epic Dictionary of Slang and Unconventional English, where you will find the term described as “low colloquialism, 1923.”

Though Partridge seldom errs, in this instance I could correct him from my own stock of good-for-nothing lore. Thus:

“When Methodist preachers come down,
A preaching that drinking is sinful,
I’ll wager the rascals a crown
They always preach best with a skinful.”

Those lines are older than the nineteen twenties, older than the preceding Edwardian era, even older than the Victorian age which preceded that. They are part of a song sung by one Tony Lumpkin in Goldsmith’s She Stoops to Conquer, first played at Covent Garden Theatre, London, in March, 1773—years as well as months before the American Declaration of Independence.

If you ask what connection this has with current mysteries, the answer must be that it has none. But it does serve to ease my introduction, as an after-dinner speaker will preface his remarks with some irrelevant anecdote about the two Irishmen. No, stop! Since that might provoke ethnic controversy, make it two Scots; we of Caledonian blood don’t mind.

In modest understatement, at least, its publishers call The Gravy Train, by Whit Masterson (Dodd, Mead, $1.95), a novel of suspense. Accurately, it’s true, they add such praise as “action-packed,” “diabolical conspiracy,” “race against time and death,” “shattering surprise.” I prefer to call the book a very fine detective novel, with each clue so carefully if misleadingly placed

© 1971 by John Dickson Carr.
95

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED