clue after clue, casually mentioned amid rapid fire action, is that of the expert detective story.

But there is nothing casual about the story. We are at full stretch of tension as we watch three in the web: the elderly physicist whose young wife has been abducted on that Vermont ski-slope, the Michigan housewife bereft of an aeronautical-engineer husband during his visit to Japan, the American girl married to a British landowner whose castle dates back to the Norman Conquest. Let it be repeated that here is detective-story technique to the last gasp. A double-twist surprise finale may yank the rug from under you; don't believe anything until four pages before the end. And a hearty welcome for Miss Davis to the tribe of Honest Men.

A Majia Kiss, by Philip Loraine (Random House, $4.95) engulfs us at once in the mire of underworld crime. From New York to Sicily, home of his fathers, comes young Benedict Lister, born Benedette Secca for all his Americanization now. Still ruling lives by terror and violence, the Mafia has marked him out; he no sooner sets foot in Palermo than the bomb which should have blown him to pieces blows up somebody else instead.

Then it's pull-devil, pull-murderer for a wild battle in which well-meaning Ben, alone but for Rosalie's help, matches himself against the whole organization and as vicious a Central Bastard as ever presided. Mystery (of a sort) may be found even here. At first unknown to himself, though honorably hinted at by the author, Ben has up his sclcve a secret ace of trumps with which, in a sudden reverse-tactics move at the end, he outfaces his enemy when all seems lost. Mr. Loraine, who really understands the meaning of the word suspense, can always be relied on.

Its admirably light touch never quite hiding grim purpose underneath, George Marten's and Tiber Meray's Catch Me A Spy (Harper & Row, $4.95) conjures up every vivid image of the cloak and dagger. After a wedding in Westminster Abbey, after the beginning of a honeymoon inexplicably diverted from Italy to Bulgaria, British businessman John Fenton and Jessica, his bride, get only as far as Sofia when John is pounced on by Communist cops.

Desperately trying to free her husband from clink, Jessica gets little aid either from the head of M.I.S or from a double-faced Russian admirer in the background. Only Uncle Henry stands firm amid uproar. With John at last restored through very strange means, "we realize that Catch Me A Spy is both strong thriller and sound mystery, qualities seldom found in the same book. Don't miss this one."
