## Best Mysteries of the Month

recommended by John Dickson Carr

A British correspondent writes from Sussex to bewall the dearth of first-rate detective novels fairly and classically displaying all the clues. "Where are the new writers?" demands my correspondent, and then goes on gripping (anglice grousing) very much as I do.

"Where is the new Ellery Queen? The new Agatha Christie?" He is even indulgent enough to mention my own name, linking it with that of another low hound called Carter Dickson. "Is the theme played out? This I can't believe. And yet—I only wish you could reassure me."

Weil, I can reassure him. By the year's end I shall be able to cite at least four brilliant new detective writers of the true breed. Though each has had several books published prior to '69, all may be called newcomers in the sense that none is a limping graybeard like Dickson or Carr. And two of the four so characterized, Dei gratia, I am proud to present in this very issue.

With Inspector Martin Beck, Stockholm Police, of The Man Who Went Up in Smoke, by Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo (Pantheen, $4.50), we meet a Swedish sleuth as human as Maigret, as tenacious as Gideon, as astute as both put together. We know what will happen when some hard-working cop is looking forward to his vacation; he has less chance of getting it than any secret agent off duty. Hauled back to work by the Swedish Foreign Office, even more ponderous and stuffed-shirt than our own State Department, Beck is sent behind the Iron Curtain to trace a bibulous magazine writer who has taken off for Budapest and there vanished like a soap-bubble.

With the police of several countries honestly seeking Alf Matterson, what has Matson been up to and where is he? You may suspect espionage until you fetch up against a problem in dirty work as secret as spying and fully as dirty. Returning to Stockholm after more than one explosive encounter beside the Danube, amid toppling ruins Martin Beck solves the mystery with evidence he has known all along. This husband-and-wife collaboration, here, treated as one entity, explains everything except how to pronounce their names.

Though The Third Half, by Mildred Davis (Crime Club, $4.50) purports to be a web of espionage and is in fact just that, the web's strongest strands stretch farther than international chicancery: they are woven of human meanness and greed. And its technique,
