With The Dragon's Eye, by Scott C. S. Stone (Fawcett, 60¢) it's spies and action, action and still more spies. Michael Hawkins—no secret agent; formerly a working newsman in the Far East—has retired to Hawaii on his modest savings, seeking peace and quiet. But Hawkins's friend Leslie Trent, British secret agent as well as newsman, uses a kind of mental judo to pry him loose.
From behind the Bamboo Curtain, then, they will rescue Malcolm Leigh, once a Chicom sympathizer deep in Maoist counsels, who now wants no more of it and must be smuggled out to tell what he knows. But Leigh won't trust anybody except Hawkins, and won't move anywhere unless they also rescue his Chinese mistress, Choy-lin.
Beginning with near-disaster in Hong Kong, the two adventurers encounter dirty work aplenty before they meet Leigh and Choy-lin. Then it's more ground to cover, more enemies to dodge, in a spectacular race that never slackens until the burst of gunplay at the finale. Civilized reading, worth your time and attention.
Passing from fiction to fact, in Arthur H. Lewis's Lament for the Molly Maguires (Pocket Books, 95¢) we have the most balanced, authoritative account of terror and murder waged by one branch of an Irish secret society in the anthracite coal fields of Pennsylvania during the eighteen seventies, ending only when a Pinkerton detective infiltrated their ranks and broke their power. On these facts Conan Doyle based his Sherlock Holmes novel, The Valley of Fear; interpretation of the facts can still spark controversy almost a century later.
“Hostilities between the Molly Maguires and the (mine) owners,” writes Mr. Lewis, “were not battle between capital and labor . . . In vain have Molly apologists tried to intertwine their protagonists and the labor movement: The facts do not bear this out.”
Nothing extenuating, nor setting down aught in malice, the author avoids mere sensationalism as such; the story itself is sensational enough to have no need of colors more lurid. His whole chronicle, sombre and powerful, will hold you until the end.
For those wanting to learn how secret agents behave in real life, as opposed to how they behave in cloud-cuckootland, The Spies, edited by Robert G. Deisdorfer (Fawcett, 75¢). provides thirteen cases (count 'em, thirteen) of the real thing. Here are cloak-and-dagger deeds by friend, by enemy, and by the uncommitted, in two world wars as well as various cold wars and one war beyond our scope: the six-day affair of Arab-Israeli. From debunked Mata Hari to swaggering Che Guevara it's strong stuff, highly recommended. And yet in my heart, mea maxima culpa, I still prefer cloud-cuckooland.
130
LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED