BEST MYSTERIES
OF THE MONTH
recommended by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Yes, it was bound to happen. Your mentor, that cynical old so-and-so, should have known better than to voice glowing hopes for 1970; this month almost inevitably finds us with only one first-class new mystery in sight.

So cashiered, busted a prophet should do some penance for his rashness. What penance, though? To wear sackcloth and ashes would be classically appropriate but impractical. If I called at EQMM's office in any such ill-chosen costume, they would probably throw me out as a freak.

And yet all is not lost. Despite that solitary hardcover, there are rescuing cavalry trumpets from three paperbacks; one new spy thriller and two fact-crime items in reprint. Let these make the old man's penance less severe.

In Puppet on a Chain, by Alistair MacLean (Doubleday, $5.95), even the puppets have murderous intent. Each of Mr. MacLean's books, whether of wartime or of peacetime riot, has contained some element of mystery. Here mystery is as important as violence, with ingenious narcotics-pushing whose agents can't be traced. Any reader disposed to regard narcotics-pushing as a theme too bewiskered should see how it can be done when it's done as it ought to be.

Major Paul Sherman, one of the British heads of Interpol, has been urgently summoned to Amsterdam by his most trusted contact in Holland. Landing at Schiphol with two female assistants, beautiful dark-haired Maggie and beautiful blonde Belinda, Sherman expects anything except to see his contact shot down in the airport before they can meet.

Thenceforward, against grotesque backgrounds from night club to church to sinister warehouse (even that luxury hotel is sinister), the pace erupts with a gun-fight at the docks, a night chase over the Zuider Zee, and a final confrontation in the sky. Sherman himself strews the path with corpses before he sees the truth at a haymakers' dance and expounds it just in time. Experienced readers should spot the central villain, partly from one broad clue which Sherman does not even mention in summing up. To call this a brilliant book is only to stress the fact that its author has played fair.

129

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED