106 THE JURY BOX

be, he is perhaps less happy in judging detective fiction, which he does not seem really to understand.

And yet he is right in his complaint. “Depth” and “profundity” are relative terms, too often used for the merely pretentious or phony. Since giants like Mark Twain and G. K. Chesterton always revelled in blood and thunder, any condescending attitude belongs with the snows of yesteryear. A good story needs no justification; let’s make our own appraisal.

Post’s first tales, appearing at the turn of the century, concern the schemes of Randolph Mason, cynical New York attorney, whose clients’ crimes are committed within the framework of the law. The last collected volume, issued after his death, gives us doughty Colonel Braxton, defense counsel of the old tradition and breed.

They were spiritual extremes as well. Through the intervening years this conscientious craftsman perfected his diamond-sharp prose, his atmospheric sense, and the technique of construction by building up mystery and solution together until their ultimate explosion.

For our brief glance, at least, one book should remain without comment. The classic tales in Uncle Abner, Master of Mysteries (1918) need no further praise.

As a personal choice, if I may, let me recommend “The Great Cipher,” initial adventure from Monsieur Jonquelle, Prefect of Police of Paris (1923). “The Great Cipher,” which will conjure up nightmare images, misleads readers because each statement in the evidence is literal truth. It was the favorite Post story of S. S. Van Dine, with whose verdict mature judgment must agree.

There is much to be said for “The Cambered Foot,” from The Sleuth of St. James’s Square (1920). And also, in The Mystery at the Blue Villa (1919), for the story with that same title. “The Garden in Asia,” from The Bradmoor Murder (1929), shows how a railway engine vanished into thin air.

If on some dusty second-hand shelf you find any of these four out-of-print volumes, you will unearth much pleasure. Melville: Davisson Post wrote a number of weak stories, as every great craftsman has done. He did not always play fair with the clues. But he was a literary hypnotist par excellence, and his sensational effects have never been surpassed.