120
THE JURY BOX

family in California. His days he spends at the Golden Valley Senior Citizens' Center, a peaceful haven where elderly ladies and gentlemen can foregather.

Sometimes peaceful, yes. Rich resident Samuel Cohen, falling in love with almost-as-old Miss Walters, dies of a heart attack as soon as they become engaged. When the lady swears her fiance was murdered, nobody in authority will believe her. Whereupon Miss Walters dies, too.

Detecting against his will, Max Guttman sees light through a murk of emotional conflict. “Sherlock Holmes I ain’t,” Max has declared. Yet in true Baker Street tradition he interprets the design and snatches off somebody’s mask. Let’s hope we meet him again.

Michael Lord, protagonist of The Man with Two Clocks by Whit Masterson (Dodd, Mead, $5.95) must rank among the most sympathetic amateur agents ever blackmailed into espionage.

Young Lord, brilliant nuclear physicist, has invented a classic secret weapon called Airbrush. With university work he enjoys, with a wife he adores, Lord walks straight into nightmare. Ruthless Emlyn Shade, National Security, inexplicably prepares charges of treason.

A certain three-months’ vacation, actually spent in the woods with his old friend Ben Flagg, he is accused of spending elsewhere and in Russian hands, betraying Airbrush’s secret. Witnesses say they never heard of Ben Flagg, as well as other nonsense which makes Lord reel. He can clear his name, he learns, only by under-taking a dangerous secret mission to a Russian research station in the Antarctic.

Excitement mounts at that frozen waste. He matches wits with the KGB’s best agent, slippery Vasily Nikitin. He finds an answer to all perplexities. His triumphant return, climaxed by one final stunning surprise, rounds out the work of a master storyteller who belongs at the very top.

Derek Lambert’s The Yermakov Transfer (Dutton, $7.95) features a Russian plot to kidnap the head of the Soviet Union for the one cause most men regard as just.

Though I have left insufficient space, it may be said that Derek Lambert draws Russian characters as vividly as he draws the American newspaperman or the British blonde in this fast-paced drama of intrigue. Another A-1 choice for your list.