THE JURY BOX
By JOHN DICKSON CARR

Nobody in this job should expect too much. Even when my luck brings more than one worthy item in a given month, I can’t hope for balance: that fair-play detective novels, say, will match an equal number of thrillers. But once or twice the miracle occurs, the scissors snip a rounded pattern, and for February (mirabile dictu!) two detective novels hold our scale-pans level against two superior adventures in espionage.

Though the sleuths are no better than the spies—you may even prefer cloak-and-dagger—let’s begin with detection because that has always been our custom.

Far from being instruction or advice, Gently with the Ladies by Alan Hunter (Macmillan, $5.95) refers to Chief Superintendent George Gently, ace investigator of Scotland Yard.

Clytie Fazakerly, wealthy wife of parasitic idler John Fazak-erly, is battered to death in their luxury flat after a hundredth violent quarrel with her husband. Though few doubt this waster’s guilt, Superintendent Gently remains unconvinced.

Temperamental Clytie, short for Clytemnestra, may well have been slain by a woman. There’s arrogant Sybil Bannister, with whom she had a lesbian affair. Brenda Merryn, her half-sister and probable heir, has been John Fazakerly’s mistress. We hear much of Sarah Johnson, Fazakerly’s current mistress. And always in shadow lurks elusive Beryl Rogers, unseen almost to the end.

Gently, at heart something of a romantic, treads the maze amid conflicting evidence. He himself is tempted by the flesh; crisis succeeds crisis, including a near-suicide above rooftops, before Gently traps the murderer in this well-plotted mystery with every clue in sight.

A different kind of detective, a different background for very different action, pleasantly characterize Arthur D. Goldstein’s You’re Never Too Old To Die (Random House, $5.95).

Amiable, sharp-witted Max Guttman, seventy-two-year-old New York manufacturer, has retired to live with his daughter and her

© 1974 by John Dickson Carr.
• 119