THE JURY BOX

by JOHN DICKSON CARE

This month, it must be acknowledged with regret, your mentor has floundered through worse than the customary shortage of good books.

“If not four worthy new items,” I said to myself at first, “surely there’ll be three?” Oh, no. “Two, then?” rang the silent cry. “It’s never failed; we’re bound to get at least two.” But we weren’t. “One, anyway! One measly book, one solitary title, to raise above the flood?” And then there were none.

There seems only one way out of this impasse. Some time ago I devoted an entire column to the late Anthony Berkeley Cox, an English friend who wrote both as Anthony Berkeley and as Francis Iles. The effort was well received; several correspondents asked for more reassessments of the same kind. And so, under the present circumstances, let’s glance back at an American mystery writer who bulked large on the horizon forty years ago: Willard Huntington Wright (1888-1939), fictionally known as S.S. Van Dine.

By profession an art and literary critic, plagued with constant ill-health, in the mid-1920s our protagonist planned a series of six detective novels. Each should have its formula title, the words “Murder Case” preceded by some descriptive term of six letters. Each as its amateur detective should feature Manhattan’s anglicized aristocrat and self-conscious intellectual-debonair, erudite Philo Vance.

Vance might prove a financial winner. Investigating psychologically, scoring all material clues, he would assist District Attorney Markham and doughty Sergeant Heath of Homicide.

Well, Van Dine had guessed right. Published by Scribners in 1926, The Benson Murder Case made an immediate hit. Its successor, The “Canary” Murder Case, boomed to still larger sales. Spouting learned lectures, Vance progressed through The Greene Murder Case, The Bishop Murder Case, and The Scarab Murder Case, five novels of the proposed half dozen. With book rights,

© 1973 by John Dickson Carr.

LICENSED\(^{118}\) UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED