with serial rights, with film rights for a relentless mill, Vance’s creator grew rich and famous at the time of the Great Depression. He might have stopped after *The Kennel Murder Case*, his sixth. By this time it was impossible to stop; the game had become too profitable. From whatever cause, perhaps poor health combined with the ghoulish influence of films, his hand faltered thereafter. He had chronicled a dozen cases when he died in '39. But, despite effective touches, real power had gone. His last two efforts seemed little more than querulous self-parody, an embarrassment to those of us who had admired.

Certain critics had always belittled the author because they disliked this particular sleuth. They whooped with glee at Vance’s mannerisms or his pseudo-Oxonian speech, although he carried it off as well as a genuine British product beloved by critics, H. D. Bailey’s Reggie Fortune. They ridiculed the aesthete both when he talked aesthetics and when he forsook talk for action. “Philo Vance,” they sang with the versifier, “needs a kick in the pance.” And too often, in that monotonous refrain, they ignored the strength of the story.

It is time for some more honest appraisal.

Now Van Dine knew his job. Ingenuity he had, adaptability—several ideas he found in Gross’s textbook, *Criminal Investigation*—as well as a vivid sense of character and immense narrative skill. He did nothing at random. Vance’s cultural lectures, by enemies condemned as extraneous, were in fact carefully crafted into the book’s texture and plan.

Judge him at his best. Try *The Greene Murder Case*, an epic of family slaughter in a decayed old mansion above the East River; try *The Bishop Murder Case*, which celebrates further mass homicide among mathematicians in the West Seventies. Both are brilliant; and the latter, with such sinister nursery overtones, must rank among the best detective novels ever written.

My own generation has its sentimental memories. As Sherlock Holmes belonged to boyhood, Philo Vance (far from effete, this fellow!) set a pattern for young men of the world. That Philo so often defeated the New York police troubled us no more than that Sherlock made a monkey of Scotland Yard. The light of youth illuminates both. Final analysis, it may be, will find Vance, Markham, and Heath not unworthy to drink a toast with Holmes and Watson as they all sit together in their Valhalla beyond the stars.
