One solemn note concerning the London Detection Club. Of some thirty original members when they elected me in 1936, only two of us now remain alive.

© 1976 by John Dickson Carr.

REVIEWS OF NEW BOOKS

THE NIGHT OF THE TWELFTH, by Michael Gilbert. Harper & Row, $8.95.

On a quiet evening in June, Constable Toft methodically reported that a dead boy had just been discovered in a field east of Brading village... the third child from the area to have been killed in twelve months. In this intriguing, fast-moving suspense story suspicion soon centers on a nearby boys' school. This is one of Michael Gilbert's best and strongest novels.

“The Night of the Twelfth is a fine and grisly tale.”—Stanley Ellin.

“The only trouble with my trying to give you a quote is that Michael Gilbert is so clearly a master of his craft that anything I might say would be superfluous.”—Nathaniel Benchley.

ROUSE THE DEMON, by Carolyn Weston. Random House, $6.95.

The third exciting police proced-ural starring Casey Kellog and Al Krug—models for the heroes of the TV hit The Streets of San Francisco. The murder victim is a hypnotist who was holding therapy sessions—with a group of drug addicts. The hunt for his killer yields several promising clues and suspects. But nothing is as it first appears, and by the time Casey realizes how wrong they have been the murderer is confronting his last intended victim, whispering, “Didn’t I tell you I’d have to do something?” A warning nobody lis-tened to. And now it was too late...

But solemnity must not mitigate praise. This encyclopedia by my colleagues and their associates should become the definitive work for our time.

FREEBOOTY, by Jack Foxx.

Bobbs-Merrill, $8.95.

A humorous, historical suspense novel set in the 1860s which features a roguish Pinkerton detective named Fergus O’Hara. O’Hara is supposedly on company business as he plies his way up the Sacra-mento River on the riverboat Free-booty. The quiet journey proves to be more adventurous than a penny thriller: he becomes involved in two murders, a gold robbery, the Mulrooney Guards (a boisterous Irish militia), an insane parrot, a villainous one-eyed man addicted to choreound drops—and attempts on Fergus’ own life. Freebooty is a colorful story with clues sprinkled like sequins that make it a spar-kling guessing game of whodunit.

WHERE HELEN LIES, by Rae Foley. Dodd, Mead, $6.95.

This is an absorbing novel of romance and danger about a girl who is safe only as long as she does not know who she is. Awaken-ing in a drab hotel room, all she can remember about her past is leaning against a building, trem-bling and clutching a straw bag. In her nightmares she runs down endless corridors escaping a blazing fire or something even more terrifying. Left with few clues—an empty envelope and a help-wanted ad—she begins her search to learn her identity.

Rae Foley’s recent novels include The Barclay Place and The Dark Hill.

[ADVERTISEMENTS]

82