the idea came from.
EQMM: How about your most famous story, the first one, “The Specialty of the House”? On what was it based?
ELLIN: I think it was 1946 and meat was rationed. Jeanne and I were in this restaurant and they said, yes, we can provide meat. We were hungry, I mean really starved, for good red meat, so we placed our order. And the waiter disappeared. I mean the waiter disappeared. We sat there for five minutes, ten minutes, twenty minutes. By then we figured the steaks were already overcooked. We finally called over another waiter who shrugged, took our order himself, and served it. But our first waiter was never seen again. So right there Jeanne said they took the waiter because of the meat shortage—took him into the kitchen and cooked him. So there was a story. Nobody would publish it until I sent it to EQMM and Fred Dannay called to say he would not only use it, but it would win a prize. (It did: Best First Story of the Year—Ed.)
THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

And now, past the year’s middle, we encounter three thrillers—the first of them a near-detective novel—which rank as sound and praiseworthy rather than distinguished, although they are backed up by one really notable achievement, a vast and erudite compendium of information about your favorite reading matter. If I can’t cheer for any except the last-named, with entire justice I can commend. There’s no occasion to gripe.
Legend in Green Velvet, Mead, Elizabeth Peters (Dodd, Mead, $7.95), carries us to Scotland with our own attractive Susan, romantic-minded American girl who has been hired to assist a famous Scots archaeologist in his quest after ancient secrets.

Even before leaving Edinburgh for Professor Campbell’s dig, Susan is swept into a whirl of sensationalism, stumbles across a murder, and among other enigmatic characters meets a young laird of more than picturesque heritage.
Vivid background as well as authentic history animate rapid-paced scenes which almost be-come detection. Though the author might have given us more clues to her master criminal, on page 221 she explodes a genuine surprise. Thenceforward, despite so many stabs of danger, the saga of Susan and her young laird whirls on to its satisfactorily happy end.
Set in near-future France under flamboyant President Florian,

80