94
THE JURY BOX

Sophie. Though he wants to go straight for Sophie’s sake, it’s not to be. Fat-cat Harry Chalice, crude but clever mastermind at all dirty work, rich and retired but still ambitious, meditates a last coup which shall make Chalice’s name ring through history. Aided by his murderous young hanger-on, Crying Eddie, he plans the biggest jewel robbery of all time.

At an estate in Switzerland Marika Bergen, once world skating star, now an aging blonde with her fabulous collection of gems, will entertain a house party whose principal guests are famous women with famous gem collections of their own. To strip that party of its every valuable, reasons Mastermind Chalice, he needs Paul Henderson’s expertise and gentlemanly manners. So Chalice tempts, applying pressure. One good haul, Henderson knows, will assure his daughter’s future. Greatly tempted, he yields and joins in.

Then we’re at it—pull thief, pull devil—amid characters as diverse as an alluring German baroness and the blackmailer called Greasy George. We like Paul Henderson; greatly we hope he won’t come to harm, in spite of self-righteous maxims that the wrongdoer must suffer. But never mind; be of good heart, and don’t worry; the author likes him too.

In The Golden Ball and Other Stories, by Agatha Christie (Dodd, Mead, $5.95), we have fifteen tales written by Dame Agatha in her exuberant youth but never before republished under this title. In theme ranging from practical crime to twilight and the unseen, each story is good and all together are valuable as they show the burgeoning of that exhaustless dexterity of invention with which the author was to dazzle us in subsequent years.

Whether you are familiar or unfamiliar with these tales, dip into them. You can’t go wrong with Agatha Christie.

With A Catalogue of Crime, by Jacques Barzun and Wendell Hertig Taylor (Harper & Row, $18.95), two connoisseurs have provided what they rightly subtitle their ‘Reader’s Guide to the Literature of Mystery, Detection, & Related Genres.’

In this comprehensive study you will find every species: the novel, the short story, the fact-crime study, lined up for shrewd appraisal. The authors are here too, each of us, with strengths examined as well as faults or blunders too. If the critics’ judgment sometimes grows pompous, it is fair, honest, and sympathetic. Cherish this book; it deserves an honored place on your shelves.

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED