104 THE JURY BOX

Great Stories of Mystery and Suspense, including a little gem by Ellery Queen, as well as Murder on Board, triple travel-homicide from Dame Agatha Christie. Before leaving detection, let's not forget Elizabeth Peters's The Murders of Richard III, in which this talented tyro counterfeits fifteenth century conditions and characters for her sound modern dilemma or dead-end.

Recommended mystery-thrillers? Well, yes.

Throughout The Highbinders, by Oliver Bleeck, the fabled sword of France's Crusader-Saint, King Louis IX, leads Philip St. Ives a dance of death through half-world London until the discovery of a hiding-place so clever as almost to defy detection. In Swap, by Walter Wagner, Captain David Garrison rescues a child hostage from the Russians after Yankee-Soviet clashes without espionage. In Zaleski's Percentage, by Donald MacKenzie, a Polish gentleman preserves his honor by restealing the jewelled relic he first stole in war-time long ago.

In Pandora's Box, by Thomas Chastain, robbery at the Metropolitan Museum soars to its startling climax; great art explodes a bomb of disaster with John Murphy's The El Greco Puzzle; Hal Gulliver's Kill with Style features uproar round a projected hotel for the island of Martinique; whereas my own favorite, The Savage Day, by Jack Higgins, gives us murderous double-cross in northern Ireland.

Though there were other mystery-thrillers, and good ones, let's open the door to espionage.

Space permits only brief praise for Lionel Black's The Life and Death of Peter Wade, Owen Sela's The Kiriov Tapes, Peter Driscoll's In Connection with Kilshaw, with special praise for Sam Durell in Assignment—Amazon Queen, by Edward S. Aarons, and for Matt Helm in Donald Hamilton's The Intimidators.

Fictional biography, as well as imaginary events to set off a real character? One has inspired Jones Bond, the Authorized Biography of 007, and the other some picturesque exploits for Edgar Allan Poe in Barry Perowne's A Singular Conspiracy.

Authentic biography? Among these let's concentrate on Charles A. Norton's Melville Davisson Post: Man of Many Mysteries, our most brilliant writer of the detective short story.

Perhaps I should add that the book I found most welcome was Best "Thinking Machine" Detective Stories, by Jacques Futrelle, also a volume of shorts from the French-named American who lost his life in the Titanic disaster of 1912.