THE JURY BOX

By JOHN DICKSON CARIB

Last month, due to certain misunderstandings, I failed to sum up the year 1974. Hence the summing up of '74 must be done in this issue for January, '75.

Once more it was a so-so year. Under ideal circumstances I should prefer books almost equally divided between detection and mystery-thriller or mystery-adventure-espionage, with detection somewhat heavier in the balance. But that's a dream.

Although July gave us three admirable detective novels supported by one mystery-thriller, two other months, January and May, provided no worthy fiction of any kind. In January I avoided the impasse by discussing the best work of the late Willard Huntington Wright, alias S. S. Van Dine. In May a biography of America's ablest short-story writer among mystery mongers enabled me to commend his best work in some detail.

Biography, either factual or imaginative as fiction, rescued your mentor on still another occasion, supplying our entire list of titles for April. These biographies, real or fanciful, will be considered in due course. Meanwhile, allowing my own preference for fair-play detection of an ingenious plot, with that let retrospect begin.

The Thirteenth Trick, by Russell Braddon, keeps its reader on horns of doubt between only two suspects in mass murder. Swedish harness racing animates the many problems of Ollie Hogstrand's The Gambler. We must contrast it with other racing complexities in Slayride, by Dick Francis, to watch an English investigator solve the murder mystery at a Norwegian track.

Speaking of contrasts, detection also flings baffling enigmas at two Bow Street Runners: one (Jeremy Sturrock) in 1800 with R. G. Jeffreys's A Wicked Way To Die; the other (Edmund Blackstone) in 1824 with Beau Blackstone, by Richard Falkirk.

Two modern masters have supplied new books, George Harmon Coxe at his best in The Inside Man, and Michael Innes similarly strong with Appleby's Other Story. As for similar past performances, I commended the Readers' Digest two-volume anthology,

© 1974 by John Dickson Carr.
103