THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Very well; let’s try the experiment.
The first three titles of our four-book agenda for this month are quite safe. Beginning with an admirable new detective novel by one of the great masters, who is also editor-in-chief of this magazine, our second title sweeps us into high-powered European espionage cum Satanism with American protagonists. The third novel, adventure-thriller (American hero, British heroine), penetrates very far afield both in motive and in action, though physically it penetrates no deeper than brawling Algeria.
And our fourth title? Ah, that’s it. That’s the experiment.
“Experiment?” you may well burst out in annoyance. “What’s all this about an experiment?”
The question will answer itself as we proceed. In A Fine and Private Place by Ellery Queen (World, $5.95) Ellery and his father face a situation which, apparently originating in sheer emotion, becomes a classic murder problem of the grisliest kind.
No modern father, we are told, could sell his daughter into matrimonial slavery according to Victorian custom: not even a father like improvident, aristocratic Wallace Ryerson Whyte, whose beautiful daughter, Virginia, has caught the eye of Billionaire Nino Importuna, three times her age and of no enviable temper.
But Whyte, his crooked ways as natural as his charm, is blackmailed into arranging it. If Virginia remains Nino’s wife for five years, according to the marriage contract, she will inherit everything.
And Nino’s scheme seems successful. Despite a husband with life ruled by his own superstitions, despite the fact that she herself has fallen hard for young Peter Ennis, remain his wife Virginia does until the deadline is past. Nino’s two brothers have already met violent deaths. Then, with that fifth anniversary just attained, Nino himself is dramatically slain as though for the whoop of a cosmic jeer. Enter our son-with-father detective team. This book, with its dazzling display of crooked trails and straight clues, shows yet again how well its author deserves to be called a master.
© 1971 by John Dickson Carr.
112
LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED