THE JURY BOX
113

In David St. John's The Sorcerers (Fawcett, 75¢), paperback reprint of some notable espionage first published two years ago, Washington Attorney Peter Ward has been commissioned for undercover work by one of those government undercover agencies designed to end trouble at the start. Though American security forces work with Canadian, there have been ugly moves in Canada; no doubt a leak, with Russia's K.G.B. as active as ever. The daughter of a Canadian government V.I.P. has vanished without a trace from her exclusive school in Switzerland. Peter Ward must find lovely Diane, restore her, and set all things right. Finding Diane, even after a wild chase across Europe, proves less difficult than holding her when she is found. But to Ward the girl is worth this difficulty or any difficulty.

Our dance of espionage, background Paris, becomes a dance of Satanism as lurid as though Old Nick himself led the reel. At the climax we are blown skyward towards an ending as satisfactory to us as to any of the other good guys on our side. For action, my brethren, you can't beat this one.

Though dealing with international shell games as well as with mystery-adventure, Assignment in Algeria, by John Lee (Walker, $5.95), may be listed among the latter. You must meet Brian Douglas, American newsman with base in Spain. Meet Zalie, that alluring English girl. Meet Rick Forrester, lanky South African with too-large teeth and too-ready smile. Off on his mission, Douglas must do what he can against thrice-crooked odds.

But never mind. “Courage!” some voice seems to be whispering through the heat of conflict. “There will be other problems to solve, other beaches to lie on, other drinks to taste.” So be it. With the cloak and dagger, fortunately, tomorrow always comes.

That’s three novels dealt with, and no fourth. What do we do? In recommending this anthology of criminous criticism, The Mystery Writer’s Art, edited by Francis M. Nevins, Jr. (Bowling Green University Press: paperback, $3.50; hardcover, $8.95), be sure I don’t confuse you with the ‘average’ reader. Were you the average reader, sir or madam, you would not be following this column, perhaps not even this magazine. You have special interest in, almost a passion for, mystery and the ways of mystery. Here between covers, set down by those who know and love their field, you will find research, history, theory’s immense challenge. No vengeful lightning-bolt will strike as you read, but only sweet airs attend.

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED