find at every turn, as well as living human beings in a greenhouse of Victorian charm. The hero, Franklin Blake, gives up smoking to please the heroine, long before any television blast at us sinful but unrepentant heavy smokers. The villain is a real s.o.b. And with one feature of his double-twist ending Wilkie Collins anticipated the whole shock effect in a famous mystery novel of the 1920's. You are hereby challenged to read (or redeem) The Moonstone.

Though it appeared nearly two years ago, The Annotated Sherlock Holmes, the Four Novels and the Fifty-six Short Stories Complete, by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Edited, with an Introduction, Notes, and Bibliography, by William S. Baring-Gould (Clarkson N. Potter, 2 vols., boxed, $25) remains at hand and will remain a landmark.

It is no use arguing about Sherlock Homes; there he stands. He seems as real as the pavement of Baker Street and as unmistakable a personality as Sir Winston Churchill. His few detractors must admit he is a great man even when they deny he is a good detective. There has been nobody quite like him in the whole realm of romance.

To me any edition of the saga may be considered satisfactory if it includes my favorite Holmes short stories, Silver Blaze and The Man with the Twisted Lip, together with my favorite Holmes novel, The Valley of Fear. The present handsome, lavishly illustrated edition has been so well edited by the late William S. Baring-Gould that it enlightens us on several still-disputed points of biography or chronology, and in matters canonical comes as near being the final court of appeal as Holmes himself was the final court of appeal in detecting crime.

Take warning, though. Canonical research, which Monsignor Knox inaugurated in jest, has almost ceased to be a game. Let's not, even in jest, make the flesh-and-blood existence of Sherlock Holmes and John H. Watson an obsession very near religious mania. Being Conan Doyle's biographer, I can't accept him as Dr. Watson's literary agent; he was too indifferent a man of business to have been anybody's agent, including his own. In a gesture of friendship, if you like, he may perhaps have served as the amanuensis to whom Watson dictated. After all, the stories are in his handwriting.

But I don't really care how many wives presided at the breakfast table, or where Holmes spent some lost years when the world thought him dead. I am happy enough to hear the gaunt detective expound his methods in that timeless sitting-room, and to see opposite him 'good old Watson,' Watson the glorious, Watson the incomparable, with his stethescope in his hat and his heart on his sleeve.
