BEST MYSTERIES
OF THE MONTH
recommended by JOHN DICKSON CARR

There is a legend of the late Dorothy Parker that, substituting for Robert Benchley as dramatic critic during an unrewarding theatrical season, she once ended her column with the agonized cry, “Mr. Benchley, please come home! Baby taking awful beating!”

Now nobody could characterize your correspondent as an infant, though some might call him infantile. And this month his already battered carcase has been so kicked around that not one new item can conscientiously be praised. But there is an honorable way out. Again the noble firm of Random House, which I must give the highest praise despite an instinctive wish to favor my own old firm of Harper & Row, has saved me from confessing failure in the search for good sensationalism. Another publisher has also come to the rescue. In one double volume, then, I give you a brace of classic mysteries readily available at your bookshop or at any well-stocked public library. The other two books, here presented for the same reason, constitute halves of the great detective saga which has been enthralling everybody since the year 1887.

In assessing the double volume of The Moonstone and The Woman in White, by Wilkie Collins (Modern Library, $3.95), I shall beg leave to concentrate on the first. The Woman in White (1860) is the excellent story of an intrigue craftily spun by those two favorite monsters of nineteenth-century fantasy, the wicked British baronet and the sinister foreign count. But I don’t love it as I love The Moonstone. There are reasons for this affection.

Edgar Allan Poe is usually and rightly credited with inventing the fair-play detective short story. Yet he himself played strictly fair only once: in a murder tale, Thou Art the Man, seldom even mentioned when his accomplishments are listed. Poe failed there because he wrote it with a kind of ferocious waggery that evokes the wrong mood.

It was left for Wilkie Collins in The Moonstone (1868) to provide the first triumphant double-twist surprise finale, after carefully displaying all the clues throughout a gripping novel.

If this story has no murder, except the retributive murder at the end, your true artist in mystery can achieve the frisson he wants without taking a hatchet to anybody. Sensationalism you will

103