(Harper & Row, $6.95), you must not imagine that investigation moves in any machine like way, with lever or cogwheel predominant.

Chicano Detective Gabriel Wa-ger, Denver Police, is almost sure that the Rare Things Import Shop, long suspected of smuggling in marijuana, has become a front for the sale of heroin. But can he prove it? The manager of the shop, facing him with polite en-mity, is another clever Chicano, Rafael Alvarez, as slippery and crooked as Wager is human and honest.

Smaller fry clamor round them when Wager, aided by a colleague more concerned about his wife than about his career, sets bait for the big fish. It’s a fast, exciting story, firework-illuminated, in which the brains and guile of crookdom at last are overmatch-ed by the brains and guile of the cops.

To nab a psychotic killer who preys on children, and win their case under laws which so often favor the guilty, is the challenge for Britain’s C.I.D. throughout The Evidence You Will Hear, by Hamilton Jobson (Scribners, $6.95).

In some thriving if unnamed town three girls aged six to nine have already been abducted, sexually attacked, and slain when small Angela Murray fails to return from school. Though An-gela’s fate remains in doubt, all omens look sinister. Rage and panic blaze together as this so-ber community faces the reality of their own madman a-prowl.

Our title suggests only the courtroom, but much action unrolls before any jury confronts repellent young Peter Mellish, who still sneers at his captors and thinks himself above the law. This psycho plans escape if they convict him; Angela’s father swears vengeance in any case. And yet, despite so many grim threats, there’s happiness at the end of as-vivid and grip-ping a novel as you will read this year.

Since author and publisher of-fer Brian David Boyer’s Prince of Thieves (Dial Press, $8.95) as mainly factual, apart from changed names, let’s accept that assessment.

Vivid from start to finish is this biography of free-spending Peter (“Tony”) Milano, described as the world’s greatest forger. Usually in disguise, as much actor as forgery artist, he “moved” stolen bonds or securities all over Eu-rope. For Brooklyn Tony it was the sweet life of luxury until somebody betrayed him.

Even after he had served time he couldn’t change his life. Read for yourself how he was black-mailed into one last forgery, a fittingly ironic climax for any artist’s career.

© 1975 by John Dickson Carr.
121