100
THE JURY BOX

at the clock showed we had left time for nothing but to adjourn.
Out we went into the night. ·Subsequent suggestions of resuming activity produced little beyond more debate. Hitler's War intervened to wrench every life awry. The Black Maria Club does not exist; it never existed; the first meeting was also the last.
Such reflections have been inspired by the first of four items I would praise this month, the brilliant new biography of a man once powerful if shadowy—seeming in the American underworld during its most controversial age. Though I can offer you no first-class new fiction, let the biography be supported by three paperback novel reprints, all British: one comparatively recent fair-play detective story, one detective classic of forty years ago, and one classic of espionage from World War I.
In Johnny Torrio, First of the Gang Lords, by Jack McPhaul (Arlington House, $8.95), several violent generations have been reconstructed with the vividness of the veteran reporter and the care of the academic historian, for a story as rip-roaring as it is accurate.
Born near Naples in the early eighteen eighties, taken to New York as an infant, John Torrio was learning many ways of profit before in youth he left Manhattan for Chicago. He had learned the importance of controlling booze and owning brothels, though he neither drank, smoked, gambled, nor philandered. And Torrio himself never pulled a trigger; he just gave orders.
With the advent of prohibition he had gained great power, and went on to power still greater. Young Alphonse Capone, out from Brooklyn, was put to work as bouncer in one of Torrio's brothels, whence Capone rose to be chief lieutenant. Big Scarface Al, who exulted in publicity, took the spotlight for himself and left his boss in shadow according to the boss's wish. Once disaster brushed near, when O'Bannon's hoods tried to blast Torrio before Torrio's hoods did blast O'Bannon. J.T. survived, with only a scarred neck.
Survived? He tried retirement in Italy, and slipped back here only when Il Duce threatened to jail Yankee gangsters of Italian birth. And his luck held. After a heart attack at the barber's (1957), he died in peace, prosperity, and a hospital bed, at the mature age of 75. There may be a moral here, but it's not easy to find.
In Let's Choose Executors, by Sara Woods (Popular Library, 75¢), another tricky murder mystery inspires sensational courtroom drama for the talents of that very engaging barrister, Antony Maitland.
At ancient and provincial Chedcombe, on New Year's Eve, ancient

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED