THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Today the London Detection Club still flourishes as of yore. Having spoken much of that particular group, perhaps I may mention another projected club, just as excellent of intent, which never quite got off the ground—or came down from up in the air.

Also in London, one night towards the close of the nineteen thirties, some dozen or more of us assembled for dinner at the hospitable home of Fryn Tennyson Jesse and her husband, H. M. Harwood. Our purpose was to inaugurate a club for the study and discussion of picturesque murders from real life.

In one corner the most distinguished-looking man present, A. E. W. Mason of ambassadorial profile and silver hair, sat communing with a cigar. I remember Mrs. Belloc Lowndes, who was to read a paper on Lizzie Borden; garrulous Sir Hugh Walpole; still more garrulous Harry Hodge, Edinburgh publisher of the Notable British Trials; and benevolent Charles S. Evans, high khan at William Heinemann Ltd.

What should be the name of our group? Uproar broke out at once. Everybody called for something different, almost everybody was vociferous, and none of the vociferous would shut up. Worn down at length by Harry Hodge, who had edited a collection of gory prefaces called The Black Maria, we agreed to be the Black Maria Club. Then arose the question of whom we should admit.

“For instance,” somebody asked, “ought we to admit judges?”

Though I anticipated small difficulty here, thinking we might count ourselves lucky if we got any judges at all, objection had been entered by a stubborn soul who seemed to have based his views on the conduct of Judge Jeffreys. Majority vote finally decided that these miscreants might be admitted if they behaved.

“Need we confine ourselves to murder?” observed a gentle-faced lady. “Surely there are other crimes of equal fascination?”

Challenged to state one, she made several suggestions which the brethren greeted in a mood ranging from scorn to ribaldry. We argued this, we argued that, we went on arguing until a glance

© 1970 by John Dickson Carr.

99

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED