THE JURY BOX

by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Yes, something has been achieved. Our dateline is November, and we are within one month of summing up at the end, before lack of worthy new detection compels a choice among masterpieces from the past. Though it will be buttressed by three new adventure-thrillers this masterpiece first saw the light more than fifty years ago. Let's salute the short-story wizardry of Melville Davisson Post, lawyer-philosopher-criminologist, whose death in 1930 ended a writing career both brilliant and popularly successful.

Before the turn of the century Post had invented his Messianic lawyer, Randolph Mason. Ah, these Masons! But his best-known book, Uncle Abner, Master of Mysteries, was published by Appleton in 1918. Against a background of the Virginia which became West Virginia during the Great Conflict, it features Uncle Abner, that stern mountain man, in eighteen detective tales as terse as they are powerfully written, each with a whiplash end.

Uncle Abner himself inspires little affection. Always heavy, often sanctimonious, he tends to confuse himself with some Old Testament prophet dispensing God's justice. And yet he radiates strength, including the strength of common sense; by sheer bludgeoning attack he joins the immortals.

Supporting thrillers? Beginning with the escape of a black fugitive from New Prison, The Wilby Conspiracy, by Peter Driscoll (Lippincott, $6.95), blasts upcountry through South Africa under hard-fisted Afrikaans rule.

Almost at once we focus on big Jim Keogh, Liverpool Irishman whose engineering degree matches a heart in the right place; on Rina, Keogh's svelte mistress, and on Shack Twala, the escaped prisoner, with all three on the run after Keogh has conked some Boer cop with a wine-bottle. Carrying a fortune in diamonds, cynically but unalterably honest, Keogh must restore those diamonds to their rightful owner.

North they race, Cape Town to Johannesburg, then north again for sanctuary, pursued by Rina's ex-husband and by two Dutch

© 1972 by John Dickson Carr.

83

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED