110 THE JURY BOX
many obstacles, from the girl's strife-torn family to the slipperiness of small-city grafters and the obstinacy of an Indian patriarch far away, until he suddenly remembers certain facts we have all known from the start.
If this novel may not be the year's best, nevertheless it must be recommended as a worthy item more than deserving your notice. It provides at least one well-managed surprise in addition to the identity of the principal villain, and demonstrates that “Michael Collins,” really somebody else, is a thrill-merchant of no mean stature. Try it and see.
In The Case of Kitty Ogilvie, by Jean Stubbs (Walker, $5.95), Miss Stubbs deftly reconstructs a celebrated and sensational real-life murder case from the eighteenth century, and quickens dead pulses to beat again.
Polite society in Scotland, 1765, approved the marriage of handsome Katherine Nairne to sobersided Thomas Ogilvie, laird of East Mill. Kitty herself thought she approved, until Thomas after marriage became hypochondriac father-figure rather than loving husband. Amorousness in abundance she found with dashing Patrick Ogilvie, Thomas’s younger brother. Their impassioned affair set every tongue a-clack until, too conveniently, the laird sickened and died.
Tried and condemned for Thomas’s murder, Patrick was hanged at Edinburgh; Kitty gave birth to her child in prison. Thenceforward, through this powerful novel of vividly authentic atmosphere, we follow Kitty Ogilvie’s career, in linked sourness long-drawn out, to its understandably bitter end. There have been few better reenactments of dark deeds long lost.
More Rivals of Sherlock Holmes, Cosmopolitan Crimes Edited and Introduced by Hugh Greene (Bodley Head, $6.95), is a sequel to The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes, Sir Hugh Greene’s anthology of fictional detectives appearing in popular magazines during the great years 1891-1914, when Sherlock ruled supreme.
Instead of being confined to London, the stories here range all over the world. The detectives are of every nationality, as famous as Maurice Leblanc’s Arsène Lupin or as obscure as Hesketh Pritchard’s November Joe. But the best detective, the best story, come from an American: Jacques Futrelle, who went down with the Titanic in 1912. Salute Professor Augustus S.F.X. Van Dusen, the Thinking Machine, in “The Problem of Cell 13,” and salute another fine collection by Sir Hugh Greene.