86
THE JURY BOX

and also a lawyer as well. But Kauffman can’t be everywhere. It’s a daring and ingenious robbery, not least daring or ingenious in the hiding place for the stolen paintings, which will wallop the most experienced reader with its legitimate surprise punch.

Well, let’s not anticipate. The aching tug of war between cops and robbers holds one more surprise before the end. Still, since we have been led to sympathize both with Inspector Kauffman for the cops and Joe Conant for the robbers, the penultimate burst of gunplay might have ended worse. If you want expert storytelling as well as sound characterization and credible psychology, don’t miss this one.

Ex-Major Patrick Clancy, formerly American Army, survives more perils than mysteries in John Murphy’s The El Greco Puzzle (Scribners, $6.95), whose action blazes across three continents and much of civilization.

Living in Paraguay, sent to Spain as agent for an exiled French millionaire of dubious repute, Clancy undertakes to return with the smallish El Greco studies which were not taken in Napoleon’s time but must be spirited away now.

Can Clancy do it? He is irked by French authority, hounded by predators, jeered at rather than aided by Susan Allgood, the captivating art adviser who says she hates him. Even Marshal Massena had no such task; the cards seem hopelessly stacked.

How Clancy suffered a change of mind after Susan has suffered a change of heart; how he voted with the angels at San Ildefonso Monastery; how chief predator and stooges get their comeuppance: all these climax an action thriller every reader can enjoy.

A temple-of-chance complex called The Klondike roars as background for Las Vegas, by Arthur Moore and Clayton Matthews (Pocket Books, $1.50). Each of those present—worried manager, honeymoon couple, Texas millionaire, pilfering dealer-girl, Mafia agent—has some part to play, even if mere supernumerary, in a king-size robbery which pries open the Klondike’s strongroom.

Here’s one hell of an upset. The few sympathetic characters emerge with honor; we need have no fear for Brent, the manager, or for Billie Ray, the Texan relaxing with stud poker and blondes. Though the authors might have spared us certain crudities of speech during their heavy emphasis on sex, the plotting is so dovetailed and the whole picture so convincing that it holds its pace until the end.
