THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

Despite my recurring gripe that mystery mongers now dazzle their fans with almost everything except mystery, tolerant interpretation of the rules will allow us to include the present month’s crop in this category. A story may be classed as mystery, perhaps, if the outcome of the hullabaloo remains in doubt until our author chooses to reveal it.

On this basis, then, I give you four sizzlers among the cops-and-robbers, with several surprises along the way, ranging from massive raid on city or art treasure to the epic gambling-house heist of them all. Don’t carp; relax and enjoy.

Parker, the amoral protagonist of Butcher’s Moon, by Richard Stark (Random House, $4.95), seems not so much lacking in human weakness as utterly devoid of all human feeling. Does he like food, wine, women, or anything else? We don’t know; he is thief, strategist, murderer, whom we must accept as forever unrepentant and uncaught.

In the midwestern city of Tyler for hidden plunder some other crook has lifted from him, Parker strikes back lethally to recover his loot. Aided by Alan Grofield, his actorish young partner, he tangles at once with undercover forces ever more murderous as the battle waxes in heat.

At times it seems less cops and robbers than straight robbed and robbers, one of the robbers being an important cop. When they wound and capture Grofield, Parker summons more partners for the mass attack which becomes his own bomber’s moon, and recovers enough cash for reasonable compensation. You won’t much like the fellow, but he’ll fascinate you all the way.

In Pandora’s Box, by Thomas Chastain (Mason & Lipscomb, $6.95), six priceless paintings from the Metropolitan Museum of Art are stolen and held for ransom in a heist planned by Joe Conant, black young war veteran with a law degree from Columbia.

Opposing sophisticated Conant stands wealthy, sophisticated Deputy Chief Inspector Max Kauffman, N.Y.P.D., Rhodes scholar

© 1974 by John Dickson Carr.
85
