ney with a nymphomaniac round his neck and assorted hoods at his heels, remains as entertaining as he is indestructible. The American anti-heroine, Chicory Triplehouse, achieves a new high (or low) in uninhibited behavior. But Priscilla Braddock-Fairchild, the British naval commander’s daughter, almost equals Chicory for anti-inhibitions. As some deep-laid scheme simmers toward the boiling point, everybody has a grand time except Boysie’s double, whom the Russians polish off by mistake, and Boysie himself, who at the sensational climax finds himself trapped fathoms down in a submarine hijacked by the enemy and about to launch its nuclear missile at the wrong target. Don’t miss this one.

I am no unconditional admirer of Len Deighton, whose British Intelligence narrator-hero is a kind of determinedly proletarian James Bond. But it must be conceded that **The Billion Dollar Brain** (Putnam, $4.95) has its points. With all his usual dexterity the author suggests a world in which, if we are not careful, machines may be ruling men. Triggered by the murder of a Finnish political commentator, action shuttles between London and Helsinki, over to Leningrad and Riga, across the ocean to New York and San Antonio, Texas, then back to Europe for the payoff. The anti-heroine here is Signe Laine, a Finnish blonde with some curious traits; the bad guys are represented by Harvey Newbegin, neurotic American agent, and General Midwinter, that wicked conservative.

The day is long past when Americans in English novels (John S. Blenkiron of the Richard Hannay saga, for instance) talked a jargon no American in history has ever talked. The late Ian Fleming could draw admirable American scenes and characters. Alistair MacLean can do it. So can John Gardner; see above. Mr. Deighton’s unnamed narrator manages tolerably well except when—his overmastering passion—he tries to be too in. Of him one American character is made to say, “He doesn’t know a squeeze play from a loud foul.” Do they hit many loud fouls in your league? The narrator understands baseball as little as he understands conservatives; in fact, with regard to so many things American, he doesn’t know his you-name-it from third base.
