The New Books (Book Review) Dickson Carr, John; Perenyi, Eleanor; Dreher, Carl Harper's Magazine; Jul 1, 1966; 233, 1394; ProQuest pg. 84

84

The New Books

Murder Fancier Recommends ...

by John Dickson Carr

For several years, it would seem, this department has done little but gripe about the scarcity of good mysteries and new writers. Some critics can find three or four outstanding novels a month; I count myself lucky if I stumble on ten good ones in half a year.

The reviewing of mysteries is, and ought to be, a very personal thing. While enjoying any form of well-written sensationalism, detective novel or suspense story or espionage thriller, I confess to certain preferences in the handling. As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so your correspondent panteth after the mystery which gives its reader all the clues and yet tries to yank the rug from under him with a staggering surprise finish. My path, consequently, has not been easy.

But this time, for once, the miracle occurs. This time, bejavers, they have dealt me ten winners. Though it has been necessary to cheat a little by including at least one title published toward the end of 1965, most of the books here applauded are by comparative newcomers, most have a grace of humor to lighten the dirty work, and all—including the “Gothic” romance listed second and the two spy stories at the end—conform strictly to the fair-play principle.

In The Fourth Side of the Triangle, by Ellery Queen (Random House, $3.95), one of the old masters, perhaps the most accomplished craftsman of them all, is up to his old tricks with a bang. Few families have been so harassed by the New York police as the wealthy, ultra-respectable McKells; father, mother, and son. When a tricky-minded fashion designer is shot to death in her top-floor apartment, suspicion fastens on the father, who at first is thought to have had an affair with her.

McKell senior is arrested, tried, and then, on unimpeachable evidence, acquitted. Suspicion shifts to the mother, a grande dame of impeccable background but infirm purpose. She is arrested, tried, and acquitted. Still the bloodhounds are relentless. Unless something can be done to stop them, it seems they must fasten next on the well-meaning but hot-tempered son. Since Ellery Queen is both deceptive and author, we are assured of a first-rate story as well as a first-rate mystery, and the mystery is a corker. Follow the evidence set out with such care; weigh it, interpret it correctly, and it will lead you straight to the wrong conclusion. For here we have super rug-yanking; there is not only a twist but a double twist, upsetting outward logic until the final gas; Ellery himself has been fooled. Twenty years ago, even ten years ago, Ellery's creator would not have allowed the great man to be wrong. We all learn as our whiskers whiten; the Queen menage has learned lessons too.

Mass hypnotism? Extrasensory perception? The power of thought used as a weapon to menace or kill? These elements crowd like nightmares through L. P. Davies's The Paper Dolls (Doubleday, $3.95). Told by Gordon Seacombe, a teacher in an English secondary (i.e., grade) school, it begins in moderate vein when a thirteen-year-old boy apparently throws himself backwards off a roof and is killed. That is the last touch of moderation in the book. And you will like Gordon Seacombe. If his grammar is more shaky than befits a schoolmaster, the writing itself is easy, flexible, and powerfully vivid. Leading two other would-be detectives — Joan Grey, the fetching art teacher, and an engaging old buffer named Brereton—he races out on a quest through North Country towns and villages, and through hair-raising experiences every reader will share.

To turn these pages is like a ride on an emotional roller coaster; more than once, as the roller coaster roars up a steep grade and plunges down, you wonder if the damn thing has any brakes. Though there may be argument about whether The Paper Dolls belongs to mystery or to science fiction, mystery triumphs, as in a kind of updated, more devilish Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. You won't believe the solution, but you must be dead and buriable if you haven't enjoyed yourself. The Crime Club bills this one as “something special,” and how right they are!

Small towns, as everybody knows, conceal grisly secrets, both sexual and financial. Weep for Willow Green, by Paul Kruger (Simon & Schuster, $3.50), in which a harmless-seeming photographer is murdered under such circumstances as to cause the arrest of his shapely secretary, begins against an urban background. It soon shifts to the more dangerous locale of Sprague Springs, Minnesota (pop. 3,765). Here our amiable lawyer-narrator, so impressed by the shapely secretary that he knows she can't be guilty, attacks the problem of an absconding banker, a mysterious sex-bomb called Willow Green, and others caught in their own nets of chiseling or double-crossing. A certain youthful exuberance about his narrative may lead unwary people to suppose the ending will be naive too. Don't let this fool you. Mr. Kruger, himself intent on the double twist, has

Mr. Carr, who chooses ten top mysteries annually for “Harper’s,” is the biographer of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and author of “The House at Satan’s Elbow” and other detective fiction.

Harper’s Magazine, July 1966

Copyright (c) 2003 ProQuest Information and Learning Company
Copyright (c) Harper’s Magazine Foundation