88
Spelling New fiction from two important novelists

THE NEW BOOKS

ney with a nymphomaniac round his neck and assorted hoods at his heels, remains as entertaining as he is indestructible. The American anti-heroine, Chicory Triplehouse, achieves a new high (or low) in uninhibited behavior. But Priscilla Braddock-Fairchild, the British naval commander’s daughter, almost equals Chicory for anti-inhibitions. As some deep-laid scheme simmers toward the boiling point, everybody has a grand time except Boysie’s double, whom the Russians polish off by mistake, and Boysie himself, who at the sensational climax finds himself trapped fathoms down in a submarine hijacked by the enemy and about to launch its nuclear missile at the wrong target. Don’t miss this one.

I am no unconditional admirer of Len Deighton, whose British Intelligence narrator-hero is a kind of determinedly proletarian James Bond. But it must be conceded that The Billion Dollar Brain (Putnam, $4.95) has its points. With all his usual dexterity the author suggests a world in which, if we are not careful, machines may be ruling men. Triggered by the murder of a Finnish political commentator, action shuttles between London and Helsinki, over to Leningrad and Riga, across the ocean to New York and San Antonio, Texas, then back to Europe for the payoff. The anti-heroine here is Signe Laine, a Finnish blonde with some curious traits; the bad guys are represented by Harvey Newbegin, neurotic American agent, and General Midwinter, that wicked conservative.

The day is long past when Americans in English novels (John S. Blenkiron of the Richard Hannay saga, for instance) talked a jargon no American in history has ever talked. The late Ian Fleming could draw admirable American scenes and characters. Alistair MacLean can do it. So can John Gardner; see above. Mr. Deighton’s unnamed narrator managers tolerately well except when—his overmastering passion—he tries to be too in. Of him one American character is made to say, “He doesn’t know a squeeze play from a loud foul.” Do they hit many loud fouls in your league? The narrator understands baseball as little as he understands conservatives; in fact, with regard to so many things American, he doesn’t know his you-name-it from third base.

The Wife, Poor Wretch by Eleanor Perenyi

The Social Role of the Executive’s Wife, by Margaret L. Helfrich. Ohio State University Bureau of Business Research, $3.

The Army Wife, by Nancy Shea, revised by Anna Pearle Smith. Harper & Row, $5.95.

The Air Force Wife, by Nancy Shea, revised by Anna Pearle Smith. Harper & Row, $5.95.

The Navy Wife, by Anne Briscoe Pye and Nancy Shea, revised by Barbara Naylor. Harper & Row, $5.95.

So You Want To Be A Working Mother! by Lois Benjamin. McGraw-Hill, $4.95.

It is hard to imagine these books finding a public in any country but our own. All deal with group-think situations; all are dedicated to life-adjustment; and every one of them adds to the already striking impression that being an American wife is one of the heaviest chores in history.

The Social Role of the Executive’s Wife is 95 pages of soft science, written in a style that has come to seem a parody of the genre. American women, it points out, are undergoing social change, and in case we don’t know what this means, we are told that it is “whatever may happen in the course of time to the role, the institutions, or the order comprising a social structure.” With this under our belts, we can get to the point, which is to discover “the duties, responsibilities, obligations, and normative expectations associated with each of the wifely roles.” The method used was questionnaires and interviews—of 145 of the former sent out, fifty were returned and of these fifty, twenty-five respondents were interviewed. Dr. Helfrich labors mightily over this minuscule survey, dividing and subdividing her uninteresting information until one is reminded of the jury in Alice in Wonderland trying to reduce the evidence

The daughter of a Navy captain, Eleanor Perenyi has been a magazine editor and writer as well as wife and mother. She is now free-lancing and working on a new book.

Copyright (c) 2003 ProQuest Information and Learning Company
Copyright (c) Harper’s Magazine Foundation