THE JURY BOX

112

of any kind belongs to the hunting season only.

But does it? When Cattleman Buster Hogue is shot through the head at the town’s annual picnic, a whole hornet’s nest of perplexities torments law and order until the murderer’s second victim, ambushed beside his own mail-box, carries torment to near-disaster.

At the scene gather characters from the sophisticated to the bucolic, from culture to semi-literacy or worse; from Professor Hawthorne’s daughter to Mrs. Jenkins bawling hymns in the street; from Psychiatrist Dr. Pierpont to half-wit Otto Dacey or vicious old McNair with the moonshine still.

And most easily remembered is Sheriff Chick Charleston, dominating all. Anything but bucolic despite his occasional pose, Charleston scores as both diplomat and detective. Seen through the admiring eyes of young Jason Beard, baseball pitcher and would-be sleuth, Sheriff Charleston becomes almost a folk hero of legend. Writing with humor, insight, and vividness, Mr. Guthrie has enclosed sound detection in the flesh and blood of a fine story.

Next, since the book deserves more space than we have, let there be fervent praise for Arson and Old Lace, by Sylvia Angus (World, $5.95). Matt Tregastel, successful artist, returns to paint in Corinth, on the Maine coast. Even as bullying Jay Hoaglin plots to “improve” the old town by destroying historic landmarks, some unknown hand sets a series of maniac fires.

Among inhibited New Englanders Matt falls hard for beautiful Scandanavian Alix, Jay Hoaglin’s wife—then his widow. Suspicion of murder can’t be escaped. Menace stalks those marble pavements, those eighteenth-century houses, until Matt fits together each clue for the finale. Vivat Caledonia! And a Scots toast to Miss Angus.

Though published as long ago as 1907, and now available only at second or third hand, Gaston Leroux’s The Mystery of the Yellow Room provides unforgettable blood and thunder. Still the best locked-room novel, it also confronts Reporter-Detective Joseph Rouletabille with the riddle of an adversary who disappears before the eyes of four witnesses.

Any critic dull enough to call this story improbable would apply the same term to folklore or Arthurian romance. It retains its daring, its ingenuity, its charm. And all honest readers must cherish the courtroom scene, “in which it is shown,” as one chapter-head says, “that we do not always think of everything.”