THE JURY BOX
By JOHN DICKSON CARR

With your permission, good friends, may we celebrate this time round with an all-detection month? Anyway, we must; there’s no choice. Lacking worthy items in espionage or mystery-adventure, I will back up three new titles with a once-famous old classic. Overall quality can be guaranteed. Dip in anywhere; connoisseur or neophyte, you won’t be disappointed.

The volume of short stories called Judge Dee at Work, by Robert van Gulik (Scribners, $4.95), recounts eight criminal problems, almost all murder cases, solved by stately Judge Dee during the decade he serves as chief magistrate for four different provinces of the T’ang Empire in ancient China.

The antiquity of this epoch all but staggers imagination. Our first case occurs in 663 A.D., several centuries before England’s King Alfred bumed those cakes or routed the Danes. Yet human nature seldom changes. In love, hate, greed, or plain cussedness, these distant sons of Orient are not unlike their Occidental counterparts thirteen hundred years later. And clues valid in 663 would still be revealing today.

Judge Dee and his four assistants—Sergeant Hoong, Tao Gan, Chiao Tai, Ma Joong (careful of that last name!)—find wicked ingenuity at every turn. The brutal slaying of Colonel Soo entails its own unique method of using an arrow; it is solved by red tape literal rather than figurative. The murder at the lilypond pavilion Judge Dee solves, as Sherlock Holmes might have solved it, by the incident of the frog in the night-time. In black-bearded Judge Dee, stern yet understanding, the late Robert van Gulik has created a timeless sleuth you will want to meet.

In Wild Pitch, by A. B. Guthrie, Jr. (Houghton Mifflin, $5.95), the author of The Big Sky takes as his background not the old West, the pioneer West, the shoot-’em-up West which has become three-quarters legend, but what might be everyday life in a small western town today. The gunslingers have gone, if they ever really existed; the sheriff owns a revolver but seldom wears one; gunplay

© 1973 by John Dickson Carr.
111