THE JURY BOX

by JOHN DICKSON CARR

This month, with your permission, let preliminary words be omitted. Though no first-class detective novel has fallen into these clutches, we shall consider three explosive thrillers, two of them tales of espionage, and one real-life biography of the most famous gangland boss in underworld history. Fair enough?

As regards our two cloak-and-dagger chronicles, you might first try The Twisted Wire, by Richard Falkirk (Doubleday, $5.95), and begin with a roar.

About to set out for a geological conference in Israel, by mere accident placid-seeming British geologist Thomas Bartlett overhears snatches from a phone call between the President of the United States and the American Ambassador in London. Bartlett, not much enlightened by what he has overheard, is still less enlightened by subsequent events. In his briefcase he is carrying only his own professional papers, hardly of international import. And yet secret agents from five different countries want that briefcase—or they want our protagonist's blood.

Together with Raquel Rabinovitz, the attractive girl who has been studying in New York, Bartlett walks amid tall dangers from the moment his plane lands at Tel Aviv. They attempt his life in Israel's capital, they attempt his life in Jerusalem, they almost get it during that blazing confrontation in the Sinai desert, where the author has one final surprise up his sleeve before the twisted wire becomes untwisted at last.

Place of Mists, by Robert MacLeod (McCall, $4.95), also races through cloak-and-dagger deeds of the trickiest, deadliest sort. When a United Nations delegate from the Democratic Republic of Jemma, that newly emerged Arab nation, is assassinated outside U.N. headquarters in New York, the murder triggers repercussions far away. In Africa several menaces overshadow Mohammed Sharif, President of Jemma, now visiting nearby Morocco with his tough security guards and Mathilde, his French-Arab concubine.

Who threatens President Sharif, and what game has Sharif

© 1971 by John Dickson Carr,

75

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED