76
THE JURY BOX

himself been playing in some secret deal with those Greek businessmen? To solve the problems—and, if possible, to save Sharif's life—U.N.'s Field Reconnaissance sends its most dexterous trouble-shooter, Talos Cord, with instructions to prepare for anything.

Cord, another double-o indestructible; gets help from steady-nerved Walt Jackson, from Maggie Delday, the alluring Scots girl, and from a sinister-seeming Moroccan bandit as bullets fly, blood flows in Rabat and Marrakesh alike. But the name of the game, even crookeder than it looks, we do not learn until just before mountain-battle climax, when the villains' lair is carried by storm in an armored Rolls-Royce. Recommended.

For the dirty work of espionage Viper Three, by Walter Wager (Macmillan, $5.95), substitutes high-powered mystery-adventure-violence on the grandest possible scale.

No criminals, of course, could possibly capture the control center of an ICBM launch site and blackmail the government with their threats. But five men from the death house convincingly do just that. Led by a brilliant former SAC officer who knows all the answers, they want five million dollars in cash, they want guaranteed air transport abroad with our most eminent American as their hostage, or they will launch the nuclear missiles at Russia and Red China to touch off World War III.

Now how can this wild impasse be resolved: either for wise President Stephens on one side, or, on the other, for the only two convicts who show any sign of humanity and good will? But resolved it is, at least with some degree of justice, by the time thunder has rolled away. For sheer excitement Viper Three equals anything I have read in several years.

Flamboyant Mr. Big himself roars or coos through John Kobler's Capone (Putnam, $8.95), the definitive biography of one whose name still means gangland's high khan of them all.

The book vividly traces Al Capone through gang wars to power, then through disaster to federal prison and the grave. Whatever he did, this blood-smeared romantic tried to present himself, perhaps really saw himself, as a hard-working businessman and a good fellow who meant no harm.

And the outcome for the hero? Having served his time in jail, Mr. Big emerged a broken figure, mind as well as body eaten away by syphilis; and he who had begun with a bang ended, grotesquely, without even a whimper.

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED