THE JURY BOX
by JOHN DICKSON CARR

This month, while encountering no worthy new item, your mentor has had the luck to unearth four paperbacks which fulfill every requirement. Today’s paperbacks are as expensive as were hardcover novels in my youth, but with our present swollen prices the cost seems moderate by contrast. And, although classic detection is missing from the quartet, I can offer you incessant excitement either from espionage or from mystery-thriller.

The Confidential Agent, by Graham Greene (Pocket Books, $1.50), is a cloak-and-dagger classic first published more than thirty-five years ago, but with its grip unweakened by time.

Though the author never tells us which side in what country’s civil war is represented by a protagonist merely called D., we can soon guess. In England to buy coal from multi-millionaire Lord Benditch, hounded by peril at every step, D. soon becomes acquainted both with Lord Benditch’s handsome daughter and with the loyal little drudge called Else.

D. soon wins our sympathy as he battles danger against vivid backgrounds: the sleazy hotel in Bloomsbury, the sinister office above Oxford Street, the mining town of the Midlands, and back to a fog-shrouded London where his enemies close in.

Frame succeeds frame; he can’t seem to escape. When a last twist finds him safely homeward bound, with Rose Benditch be-side him, the reader has been treated to an unforgettable experience in espionage and thrill.

Waking one morning at a Norwegian luxury hotel, Giles Denison, British protagonist of Desmond Bagley’s The Tightrope Men (Fawcett, $1.25), sees in his shaving mirror the face of a total stranger.

No, it’s not science fiction. By practical means, for very practical reasons, he has been given the identity of Professor Harold Meyrick, a scientific genius much older than himself. Complications fly like poisoned darts. Denison’s double life is governed by the double dealing of a hush-hush bureau from London, which

© 1975 by John Dickson Carr.
123