THE JURY BOX
99

old antique-dealer with the Cockney accent. We have the eccentric servants, each a proved ex-murderer. When somebody dresses up as an ancient Druid, bewigged and bewiskered, no doubt death will claim its victim.

Sheer narrative skill touches familiar materials with novelty, even freshness. Ngaio Marsh, like Agatha Christie now a Dame Commander of the British Empire, gives us real people in a storm of emotion we can understand. And Dame Ngaio, no less wily than Dame Agatha herself, has devised a plot honorably fair but of double-distilled misdirection to bamboozle the unwary: strong entertainment for any reader.

In Birthday, Deathday by Hugh Pentecost (Dodd, Mead, $4.95), New York's super-swank Hotel Beaumont again provides a stage for bloody deeds and for the detective talent of Pierre Chambrun, its manager. Brutal, pitiless General Ho Chang will pay a visit this Eastern potentate may not survive. Neil Drury, whose family the general slaughtered, has vowed vengeance and disappeared.

But we can't hope for the success of a would-be murderer; or can we? Where might Neil Drury be hiding? And, in any case, how to crack that impenetrable ring of guards? Mr. Pentecost, one of our own most experienced bafflers, keeps tension at fever pitch as other crimes build towards confrontation and the eye of ultimate truth. Continue; have no fear. The finale won't let you down.

Since a secret agent in fiction so often must battle his own colleagues before meeting any alien foe, you will not be surprised that the whole action of Victor Canning's Firecrest (Morrow, $5.95) explodes inside that British hush-hushery called the Department, its favored weapon deceit and its cheapest commodity human life.

Professor Dilling, inspired both by genius and by his lissom mistress, Lily, has invented a secret weapon. Suspecting dirty work, he has hidden the plans of “Firecrest” before a heart attack strikes him dead. John Grimster, the Department’s best operative, must take over Lily and find those missing plans.

Then, of course, they will eliminate Lily; they may eliminate their own agent too. A savage tug-of-war, Grimster against authority, wrenches muscles from London to the country, from Lily’s bedroom to the lion-enclosure at Woburn. The final smash may be unjust; it may be unpleasant; given such premises, it is merely inevitable.

LICENSED TO UNZ.ORG
ELECTRONIC REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED