THE JURY BOX
111
British tycoon Lord Driver, unexpectedly shelters the American Secretary of State. Our bandits have first asked for a million pounds. Now they demand four million, or they will slaughter everyone inside.
Through tense hours of parley, when every police approach ends in blood or stalemate, with both bandits and victims we watch British-American authority compelled to make terms. How these predators are defeated, partly because Lord Driver’s family must keep the old man alive for tax reasons, puts blazing finish to as powerful a thriller as we shall read this year.
On its first page Night of the Juggler, by William P. McGivern (Putnam, $7.95), grips attention and with frightening credibility whirls you from one threat or crisis to another even worse.
This particular juggler must not be confused with some romantic jongleur; he’s a murderous psychopath who preys on underage girls. Each victim has been raped and mutilated before the throat-cutting which distorted a meaning from “jugular.” Though Mr. Nightmare still eludes the New York police, Lieutenant Tonnelli is feverish to nail him.
Dangerous trails stretch around and inside Central Park. We follow Gus Soltik, the hulking psychopath, as he prowls to choose a sacrifice. We follow Luther Boyd, tough and wealthy ex-Army colonel, whose eleven-year-old daughter is menaced. We follow Kate, his daughter; we follow her mother, Colonel Boyd’s estranged wife; we even follow that sympathic doorman at the apartment-house facing the park. Then murderer, cops, and alarmed father all close in. You must not miss the result.
Despite such fast pace and action as galvanize our best slam-bang thrillers, Brain Garfield’s The Threepersons Hunt (Fawcett, $1.25) also proves to be a carefully plotted detective novel with every clue in sight.
Sam Watchman, Navajo Indian as well as Arizona State Trooper promoted to temporary detective, must bring in moody and dangerous Joe Threepersons, Apache Indian who has broken jail while serving time for murder. But, though Navajo has never loved Apache, did Joe Threepersons really commit the murder of which he was accused?
Temporary status or no, Sam is a first-class detective. Amid colorful characters and vivid southwestern scenes, our Indian Sherlock studies facts even while pursuing his quarry, and strips the mask from guilt in a climax as exciting as it is logical.